Popular note-taking app Evernote today a major redesign to its interface that it's calling Home, a dashboard interface that aims to keep users organized by putting the information they need each day in one easily accessible place. Home is a brand-new way to start your day in Evernote; a one-stop dashboard that puts the information you need front and center--neatly organized and instantly available--so you can stay on top of your day without feeling overwhelmed. The Home dashboard includes widgets that present important notes, tags, documents, and shortcuts in a unified UI, with intelligent suggestions of useful content to start each day. Users with an Evernote Basic or Plus account are presented with several widgets each day, including Notes, Scratch Pad, Recently Captured, Notebooks, Pinned Note, Tags, and Shortcuts. Evernote Premium and Business subscribers also have the ability to resize, reorder, and remove widgets to customize their Home dashboard, and have access to options that allow them to change the background image. iOS 14.3 is out! Read all about it. Apple Fitness+ is out! Read all about it. Everything to know about the Apple Silicon M1 Chip Apple Fitness+ and Peloton offer polished workout routines delivered by enthusiastic instructors and accompanied by motivating music playlists. Apple is rumored to be working on a new version of the AirPods Pro, the AirPods Pro 2, and there could be some design changes in store. iPad Pro-like design? New screen sizes? Apple is working on a Tile-like Bluetooth tracking device that's designed to be attached to items like keys and wallets for tracking purposes, letting you find them right in the Find My app. Apple Augmented Reality Glasses are said to be coming in the next couple of years. Here's what we know so far.  MacRumors attracts a broad audience of both consumers and professionals interested in the latest technologies and products. We also boast an active community focused on purchasing decisions and technical aspects of the iPhone, iPod, iPad, and Mac platforms.