Electronics are a part of everyone's life -- but what are the negative effects of screen time for adults and children? Screens are a part of everyone's life these days. While there is growing evidence showing the negative effects of screen time on adults and children, your family can improve their health by cutting back on the amount of time spent in front of the screen. Learn the negative effects of prolonged screen time and tips to help limit electronics use. Whether the whole family sits around staring at their smartphones or you keep the TV on in the background, too much screen time can be harmful. Here are a few ways your health may be negatively affected by spending too much time in front of a screen. Additionally, a study found that children who spent more than two hours a day on electronic devices scored lower on thinking and language tests. Those with more than seven hours of screen time experienced thinning of the brain's cortex, which is related to critical thinking and reasoning. Limiting screen time to just a few hours a day may not be realistic, but these tips can help slim you and your family's screen time. So, what is the ideal amount of screen time? While it sounds like a simple question, the "just right" amount often depends on what type of screen a person is looking at and why they are looking at it. The recommends avoiding screens for children younger than 18 to 24 months. Children over age 2 should be limited to 1 to 2 hours of screen time per day. Adults should also try to limit their screen time outside of work hours. If you have questions about the negative effects of screen time for adults and children, find a nearby or call 1-833-VLLYWSE to schedule an appointment. Sources: Written By Topics Share Aris Mosley, MD is a District Medical Group provider and Medical Director of the Valleywise Health First Episode Center. She is board certified in both adult psychiatry and child and adolescent psychiatry. Her goal when working with individuals that have a brain health disorder is to allow them to take an active role in their treatment and recovery through shared decision making.  Wondering how to prepare before a surgery? Here's what you need to know before you head to the hospital.  We all feel distracted at times -- but is it a sign of something else? Learn what ADD/ADHD is and when it's time to seek help. Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website.