Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The early years of railroad growth saw railroads built between fledgling towns and across wilderness to transport people and goods. In 1869, the first transcontinental railroad across the U.S. was completed, and in the next 50 years trains crisscrossed the country on newly built tracks. The railways' speed of travel and volume of traffic far exceeded horse-drawn carts, canal traffic and the earliest motor vehicles. Between 1869 and 1916 several kinds of rail networks were built: The longest ones connected far-flung parts of the country; regional ones knitted together populated cities. The first urban railway--the subway or metro--was built in 1863 in London. These and tramways brought people, commuting on a daily basis, within cities to different areas of the city for their jobs and schools. The height of the rail network in the United States peaked in about 1916, with 254,000 miles of railway track covering the country. Our snapshot of various aspects of railways from 1915 shows some diverse parts of this varied, far-flung, network of networks in the U.S. and abroad. For a fuller account, you should take a look at the Archive of the magazine that covered the technology, growth and decline of the railroad: This article was originally published with the title "Railways and Mass Transit Move People and Goods, 1915" in Scientific American  313, 1,  (July 2015) Dan Schlenoff is a contributing editor at and has edited the 50, 100 and 150 Years Ago column for one seventh of the magazine's history. Credit: Nick Higgins July 1, 2015  --  Daniel C. Schlenoff Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.