Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Innovation and discovery as chronicled in past issues of  "Since 1958 direct measurements of the outer reaches of the earth's field by means of artificial satellites and rocket probes have convinced many geophysicists that the simple picture of that magnetic field must be drastically revised. Far from being free of external influences, the geomagnetic field is continuously buffeted by a 'wind' of electrically charged particles emanating from the sun, distorted by electric currents circulating in the radiation belts that girdle the earth. The net result of all these influences is a geomagnetic field shaped somewhat like a teardrop with a tremendously elongated tail. Analysis of the data provided by the satellite measurements has progressed to the stage at which the broad outlines of the magnetosphere can now be mapped with reasonable accuracy."  "Only recently have educators turned their attention to the physical condition of the average school child, and in the south they have done so largely because of the discovery of the enormously important part played by hookworm. Pupils at school become infected, with the school as a site of exchange. In a comparatively short time the premises around the homes of all the schoolchildren are polluted, and we have the change (which anemia produces) coming over the community. Progress of the children in school is retarded; the daily attendance is poor; the health of the community is below normal; the crops are not so well cultivated; the houses are not so well provided for or kept; the whole community is sick and doesn't know it. The economic loss is tremendous."  "According to the latest experiments of Prof. Bunsen in connection with the preparation and properties of this metal, it appears that it may be reduced from carbonated aciferous tartrite of oxide of rubidium (in a manner similar to the reduction of kalium [potassium]). It is very light, like silver, its color is white, with a yellowish , hardly perceptible. In contact with air it covers itself immediately with a bluish gray coating of suboxyd, and is inflamed (even when in large lumps) after a few seconds, much quicker than kalium." This article was originally published with the title "50, 100 & 150 Years Ago" in Scientific American  312, 3, 77 (March 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0315-77 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.