Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A marine biologist describes her upcoming mission 
to some of the deepest hydrothermal vents in the ocean  Jill McDermott  Ph.D. candidate, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution  Woods Hole, Mass.  We'll sail onboard the research vessel to the Mid-Cayman Spreading Center, which harbors the world's deepest chain of volcanoes. It's south of the Cayman Islands and west of Jamaica and Cuba. We first visited the site two years ago with a submarine called Nereus, and we found evidence of three new hydrothermal vents. On this cruise, we want to send our remotely operated underwater vehicle [ROV] Jason down to do a sampling mission at one of those vents and at another one discovered in 2010 by a team led by the U.K.'s National Oceanography Center, Southampton.  The Mid-Cayman Spreading Center is a really exciting place to work, partly because of the diversity of the environment there. It's an ultraslow-spreading ridge, which means it has a low level of volcanic activity and a lot of tectonic activity. There are many different types of rocks, from volcanic basalt to peridotite, a rock that's more like the mantle and gets pulled up from deeper within the earth. The rock composition around a vent is a big driver of that vent's chemistry, and what I hope to understand is the chemistry of these two systems and how the pressure and rocks can cause the chemistry to change.  We use a sensor that looks for the reducing potential of the water--how much oxygen is present. A deep-sea hydrothermal vent emits water that contains very low levels of oxygen. That low-oxygen water comes up from the vent, and as it drifts along we can detect the plume.  We're sending Jason on the sampling mission with four titanium bottles that will hold water samples; other people are sending bioboxes and things to put sulfide structures in. Jason is a workhorse. It's a really powerful submarine. It can stay down for more than 24 hours and has strong manipulator arms.  Our studies seek to extend the known limits of life on earth. One of our goals is to understand whether or not organic molecules can be synthesized abiotically [without living organisms] in deep-sea hydrothermal vents, which carries implications for the origin and sustenance of life on the early earth and will inform future missions searching for life on other planetary bodies.  Rose Eveleth is a writer and producer who explores how humans tangle with science and technology. She's the creator and host Flash Forward, a podcast about possible (and not so possible) futures, and has covered everything from fake tumbleweed farms to million dollar baccarat heists. July 21, 2010 October 25, 2011  --  John Matson March 4, 2012  --  Rose Eveleth March 1, 2012  --  Beryl Lieff Benderly March 1, 2012  --  John Matson Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.