Read Our Latest Issue "Perhaps surprisingly, this turns out to be a subtle question.
It is not obviously ruled out by our current laws of nature.
Recent investigations into this question have provided some
evidence that the answer is no, but it has not yet been proven
to be impossible." Even the slight possibility of time travel exerts such
fascination that many physicists continue to study not only
whether it may be possible but also how one might do it. One of the leading researchers in this area is William A. Hiscock, a professor of physics at Montana
State University. Here are his thoughts on the matter: "Is it possible to travel through time? To answer this question,
we must be a bit more specific about what we mean by traveling
through time. Discounting the everyday progression of time, the
question can be divided into two parts: Is it possible, within a
short time (less than a human life span), to travel into the
distant future? And is it possible to travel into the past? "Our current understanding of fundamental physics tells us that
the answer to the first question is a definite yes, and to the
second, maybe. "The mechanism for traveling into the distant future is to use
the time-dilation effect of Special Relativity, which states
that a moving clock appears to tick more slowly the closer it
approaches the speed of light. This effect, which has been
overwhelmingly supported by experimental tests, applies to all
types of clocks, including biological aging. "If one were to depart from the earth in a spaceship that could
accelerate continuously at a comfortable one g (an acceleration
that would produce a force equal to the gravity at the earth's
surface), one would begin to approach the speed of light
relative to the earth within about a year. As the ship continued
to accelerate, it would come ever closer to the speed of light,
and its clocks would appear to run at an ever slower rate
relative to the earth. Under such circumstances, a round trip to
the center of our galaxy and back to the earth--a distance of
some 60,000 light-years--could be completed in only a little
more than 40 years of ship time. Upon arriving back at the
earth, the astronaut would be only 40 years older, while 60,000
years would have passed on the earth. (Note that there is no
'twin paradox,' because it is unambiguous that the space
traveler has felt the constant acceleration for 40 years, while
a hypothetical twin left behind on a spaceship circling the
earth has not.) "Such a trip would pose formidable engineering problems: the
amount of energy required, even assuming a perfect conversion of
mass into energy, is greater than a planetary mass. But nothing
in the known laws of physics would prevent such a trip from
occurring. "Time travel into the past, which is what people usually mean by
time travel, is a much more uncertain proposition. There are
many solutions to Einstein's equations of General Relativity
that allow a person to follow a timeline that would result in
her (or him) encountering herself--or her grandmother--at an
earlier time. The problem is deciding whether these solutions
represent situations that could occur in the real universe, or
whether they are mere mathematical oddities incompatible with
known physics. No experiment or observation has ever indicated
that time travel is occurring in our universe. Much work has
been done by theoretical physicists in the past decade to try to
determine whether, in a universe that is initially without time
travel, one can build a time machine--in other words, if it is
possible to manipulate matter and the geometry of space-time in
such a way as to create new paths that circle back in time. "How could one build a time machine? The simplest way currently
being discussed is to take a wormhole (a tunnel connecting
spatially separated regions of space-time) and give one mouth of
the wormhole a substantial velocity with respect to the other.
Passage through the wormhole would then allow travel to the
past. "Easily said--but where does one obtain a wormhole? Although the
theoretical properties of wormholes have been extensively
studied over the past decade, little is known about how to form
a macroscopic wormhole, large enough for a human or a spaceship
to pass through. Some speculative theories of quantum gravity
tell us that space-time has a complicated, foamlike structure of
wormholes on the smallest scales--10^-33 centimeter, or a
billion billion times smaller than an electron. Some physicists
believe it may be possible to grab one of these truly
microscopic wormholes and enlarge it to usable size, but at
present these ideas are all very hypothetical. "Even if we had a wormhole, would nature allow us to convert it
into a time machine? Stephen
Hawking has formulated a "Chronology Protection Conjecture,"
which states that the laws of nature prevent the creation of a
time machine. At the moment, however, this is just a conjecture,
not proven. "Theoretical physicists have studied various aspects of physics
to determine whether this law or that might protect chronology
and forbid the building of a time machine. In all the searching,
however, only one bit of physics has been found that might
prohibit using a wormhole to travel through time. In 1982, Deborah
A. Konkowski of the U.S. Naval Academy and I showed that the
energy in the vacuum state of a massless quantized field (such
as the photon) would grow without bound as a time machine is
being turned on, effectively preventing it from being used.
Later studies by Hawking and Kip
S. Thorne of Caltech have shown that it is unclear whether
the growing energy would change the geometry of space-time
rapidly enough to stop the operation of the time machine. Recent
work by Tsunefumi Tanaka of Montana State University and myself,
along with independent research by David
Boulware of the University of Washington, has shown that the
energy in the vacuum state of a field having mass (such as the
electron) does not grow to unbounded levels; this finding
indicates there may be a way to engineer the particle physics to
allow a time machine to work. "Perhaps the biggest surprise of the work of the past decade is
that it is not obvious that the laws of physics forbid time
travel. It is increasingly clear that the question may not be
settled until scientists develop an adequate theory of quantum
gravity." John
L. Friedman of the physics department at the University of
Wisconsin at Milwaukee has also given this subject a great deal
of consideration: "Special relativity implies that people or clocks at rest (or
not accelerating) age more quickly than partners traveling on
round-trips in which one changes direction to return to one's
partner. In the world's particle accelerators, this prediction
is tested daily: Particles traveling in circles at nearly the
speed of light decay more slowly than those at rest, and the
decay time agrees with theory to the high precision of the
measurements. "Within the framework of Special Relativity, the fact that
particles cannot move faster than light prevents one from
returning after a high-speed trip to a time earlier than the
time of departure. Once gravity is included, however, spacetime
is curved, so there are solutions to the equations of General
Relativity in which particles can travel in paths that take them
back to earlier times. Other features of the geometries that
solve the equations of General Relativity include gravitational
lenses, gravitational waves and black holes; the dramatic
explosion of discoveries in radio and X-ray astronomy during the
past two decades has led to the observation of gravitational
lenses and gravitational waves, as well as to compelling
evidence for giant black holes in the centers of galaxies and
stellar-sized black holes that arise from the collapse of dying
stars. But there do not appear to be regions of spacetime that
allow time travel, raising the fundamental question of what
forbids them--or if they really are forbidden. "A recent surprise is that one can circumvent the 'grandfather
paradox,' the idea that it is logically inconsistent for
particle paths to loop back to earlier times, because, for
example, a granddaughter could go back in time to do away with
her grandfather. For several simple physical systems, solutions
to the equations of physics exist for any starting condition. In
these model systems, something always intervenes to prevent
inconsistency analogous to murdering one's grandfather. "Then why do there seem to be no time machines? Two different
answers are consistent with our knowledge. The first is simply
that the classical theory has a much broader set of solutions
than the correct theory of quantum gravity. It is not
implausible that causal structure enters in a fundamental way in
quantum gravity and that classical spacetimes with time loops
are spurious--in other words, that they do not approximate any
states of the complete theory. A second possible answer is
provided by recent results that go by the name chronology
protection: One supposes that quantum gravity allows microscopic
structures that violate causality, and one shows that the
character of macroscopic matter forbids the existence of regions
with macroscopically large time loops. To create a time machine
would require negative energy, and quantum mechanics appears to
allow only extremely small regions of negative energy. And the
forces needed to create an ordinary-sized region with time loops
appear to be extremely large. "To summarize: It is very likely that the laws of physics rule
out macroscopic time machines, but possible that spacetime is
filled with microscopic time loops. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.