Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The internet has been buzzing with news of the first Hyperloop test. But what, exactly, is the hyperloop? Let's first take a 10,000 foot view of what exactly the Hyperloop is. In 2013, Elon Musk first made his idea of the Hyperloop public. If you recognize that name, that's because I've mentioned him in my He's the founder of many tech giants, such as Tesla, PayPal, SpaceX, and zip2. He's a pretty extraordinary billionaire, which I'm sure we will see much more of in the years to come. The Hyperloop is similar to the small vacuum tubes that can be found at banks and retail stores that are often used to move money quickly in . Now if you're not sure what I'm talking about, I've posted a link in the show notes to one of these small vacuum tubes working. Now the concept is to make the tubes and capsules much larger in order to carry passengers and maybe even other vehicles. Instead of using just air pressure alone to move, the Hyperloop will have similar technology to bullet trains that use magnets to propel themselves forward. The tube that the Hyperloop will travel through will have some of the air pumped out of it. This will allow the capsule to travel through much more easily without having to deal with a significant amount of air pressure. Eric Escobar is a professional computer hacker and host of the podcast on Quick and Dirty Tips. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.