Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The wonder material may pose risks if spilled Graphene is one popular nanomaterial. Made from single-atom-thick sheets of carbon, it is the strongest material ever tested and boasts superlative electronic properties, too. After a decade of research, it is on the verge of moving from the laboratory into commercial technologies, perhaps appearing soon as lightweight airplane parts or batteries with incredible capacities. So now might be a good time to anticipate potential risks posed by graphene, before workers are exposed to it or it gets into the water supply, says Sharon Walker, an environmental engineer at the University of California, Riverside. In research described in May in , Walker's group observed how one form of the material, graphene oxide, behaves in water. Walker found that in a solution mimicking groundwater, graphene oxide clumped and sank, suggesting it is not a risk. That was not the case in a solution mimicking surface water, which includes lakes and storage tanks for drinking water. Instead of falling to the bottom, it stuck to the organic matter produced by decomposing plants and animals and floated around. Such mobility might increase the chances that animals and people could ingest graphene oxide, which has shown toxicity in some early studies in mice and human lung cells. "This is a good first glimpse of how graphene might behave in the water supply," Walker says. If these materials do turn out to pose a risk to human health, their mobility in surface water could be a big problem. She hopes these studies are early enough in the conversation to inform how industry develops graphene and its derivatives and how agencies, such as the Environmental Protection Agency, regulate them. This article was originally published with the title "Graphene's Dark Side" in Scientific American  311, 1, 19 (July 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0714-19a 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.