Read Our Latest Issue  The Galileo spacecraft
continues to return tantalizing images of Jupiter's frozen moon, Europa. In previous passes by Europa, Galileo sent back snapshots of ice volcanoes, charted long, straight ridges that could be evidence of tidal churning and identified the presence of a tenuous oxygen atmosphere. All of these data have led to speculation that
beneath its icy surface, Europa could harbor a hidden ocean of liquid water--and, just possibly, life. These latest images, released by NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory on April 9,
1997, offer the closest views yet of Europa's fractured terrain. They were
captured on February 20, when Galileo swung within 586 kilometers (363 miles) of
the Jovian moon. Among the intriguing details in these new views are relatively smooth,
crater-free patches and features that appear to be chunky ice rafts. To some
researchers, these formations suggest that Europa's crust of frozen ice is
younger and thinner than previously believed, improving the odds that a warm
ocean of liquid water lies below. The most compelling image (top) shows rafts of ice
resembling those seen on Earth's polar seas during springtime thaws. The
crustal plates are up to 13 kilometers (8 miles) across and seem to have broken
apart and "floated" into new positions. "The size and geometry of these features
lead us to believe that there was a thin icy layer covering water or slushy ice and
that some motion caused these crustal plates to break up," says Ronald Greeley,
an Arizona State University geologist and member of the Galileo imaging team. Other images hint at recent geologic activity on Europa. A mosaic of two Galileo images reveals a double ridge that stretches about 2.6 kilometers (1.6 miles) wide and stands some 300 meters (330 yards) high. This complex landscape
implies that the icy crust of Europa has been modified by intense faulting and
disruption, driven by energy from the moon's interior. One especially spectacular closeup shows
smooth areas that obliterate older terrain. The view, which covers an area of 13
kilometers by 18 kilometers (8 miles by 11 miles) and has a resolution of 26
meters (28 yards), includes a flat, circular feature that JPL scientists speculate
formed when a liquid--water?--erupted onto the surface and flooded older ridges
and grooves. Such activity again testifies that there was once significant energy
churning Europa's surface. As impressive as the new images are, they leave many key questions unanswered.
First and foremost, they do not reveal precisely when these geologic disruptions
occurred. If they are recent, Europa may still have a vast ocean of liquid water
locked away beneath a thin veneer of ice; the presence of warm water would open
at least the possibility of life. But if the events took place in the distant
geologic past, Europa could now be frozen solid. Galileo imaging team member Clark Chapman believes the smoother regions
displaying few craters indicate Europa's surface is quite young. Chapman, a
planetary scientist at Southwest Research Institute in Boulder, Colo., bases his
age estimate on current knowledge about the rates at which craters form. "We're
probably seeing areas a few million years old or less, which is about as young as
we can measure on any planetary surface besides Earth," Chapman says. "Europa's
extraordinary surface geology indicates an extreme youthfulness--a very alive
world in a state of flux." On the other hand, Michael Carr, a geologist with the U.S. Geological Survey,
puts Europa's surface age at closer to one billion years old. "There are just too
many unknowns," he asserts. "Europa's relatively smooth regions are most likely
caused by a different cratering rate for Jupiter and Earth." More answers may be forthcoming; intrepid Galileo is not done with Europa yet.
The spacecraft will visit Europa for the last time in its primary mission on
November 6, 1997. And NASA has recently extended Galileo's mission by another two
years. During the additional time, it is scheduled to make eight more flybys of
Europa. The extended mission will also include encounters with two of Jupiter's
other giant moons, Callisto and Io. If luck is with them, scientists might even see the definitive proof of a
Europan ocean: a geyser of liquid water shooting onto the surface, spotted in the
act. "We want to look for evidence of current activity on Europa, possibly some
erupting geysers," Greeley says. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.