Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue In the moments after the big bang, spacetime expanded so rapidly that, in addition to our own, many--maybe infinite-- universes exploded into existence (I envision these universes as bubbles that surge up when you blow air through a straw into your glass). So goes the "multiverse" component of string theory. To be sure, the multiverse is decidedly centered in the pop physics zeitgeist, capturing the minds of the public in books, comics and film. Now a view of string theory posits that the infinite number of universes predicted cannot accommodate the stable dark energy required in any universe. But this may not necessarily be a bad thing for string theory research. Read more in " ," by Clara Moskowitz. For better or worse, ours may be a more singular universe after all. Elsewhere in this issue, scientists worry that human exploration of the solar system may unwittingly spread our pathogens to other worlds, possibly to the moon or Mars (see " " by David Warmflash). And physics experiments in search of a fundamental particle of gravity--the graviton--are employing some new tools such as microscopic superconductors, free-falling crystals and the cosmic background radiation (see " " by Charles Q. Choi). As always, we'd love to hear what you think! This article was originally published with the title "Problems with the Multiverse" in SA Space & Physics 1, 4,  (October 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanspace1018-2 Andrea Gawrylewski is the collections editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.