Read Our Latest Issue Computer models suggest a so-called dynamo process in the planet's molten core is dampened by the solar wind The mystery of why 's magnetic field is so weak may just have been solved: It is being stifled by the solar wind, researchers think. Mercury and Earth are the only rocky planets in the solar system to possess global magnetic fields, and for years scientists have puzzled over why Mercury's is so flimsy. Roiling molten iron cores generate magnetic fields, and given how extraordinarily iron-rich Mercury is for its size -- its metallic heart may comprise two-thirds of Mercury's mass, twice the ratio for Earth, Venus or Mars -- the innermost planet should have a magnetic field 30 times stronger than what spacecraft such as have detected so far. To study Mercury's magnetic field, researchers created 3-D computer simulations of the planet's interior and of the , the deluge of energetic particles from the sun that constantly bombards its nearest planet. The computer models suggested that the churning of Mercury's molten iron core ordinarily would amplify the magnetic field up to Earth-like levels, in a so-called dynamo process like the one within our planet. [ ] However, the onrushing solar wind likely prevents that from happening, researchers said. The study found that the solar wind deflects charged particles in the shell around the planet known as a magnetosphere. The magnetic field of this magnetosphere reaches all the way to Mercury's core, limiting the strength of the field created by the planet's interior, researchers said. "The magnetic coupling between the magnetosphere and the dynamo in the planetary interior yields a weakened dynamo that can explain the enigmatic weakness of the magnetic field of Mercury," said study lead author Daniel Heyner, a physicist at Technical University in Braunschweig, Germany. Scientists plan to test the accuracy of their models using data on Mercury's magnetic field and magnetosphere collected by MESSENGER and by the European BepiColombo mission due to launch in 2014, researchers said. "This is quite a challenge, as the magnetosphere is small and very dynamic," Heyner told SPACE.com. The growing number of that astronomers are discovering around distant stars may also offer insights into how planetary dynamos "are controlled by the stellar wind of stars that are in a different evolutionary phase compared to our sun," Heyner added. Heyner and his colleagues detail their findings in the Dec. 23 issue of the journal Science. (c) 2011 TechMediaNetwork.com. All rights reserved. Charles Q. Choi is a frequent contributor to . His work has also appeared in and among others. In his spare time, he has traveled to all seven continents. November 23, 2010  --  Ed Bell September 7, 2010  --  John Matson March 14, 2011  --  Ed Bell and Phil Saunders March 30, 2010  --  Ed Bell Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.