Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the March/April 2013 issue of Scientific American MIND   of the book (W. W. Norton, 2011), I suggest there is much to be gained by studying the relation between clinical hypnosis and mindfulness, which Amishi P. Jha wrote about in "Being in the Now." Just as people experience perceptual shifts, sensory shifts, physiological alterations, cognitive changes, and more during mindful experiences, so do they in response to suggestions given in similarly focused and responsive state, such as during hypnosis. The difficult questions mindfulness practitioners must eventually answer are the same ones hypnosis researchers and practitioners have been studying for a much longer time. These include: How does a suggested experience transform into a genuinely "felt" experience? Is everyone capable of focused attention to the same degree? Are there mindful approaches that may generate undesirable effects? Mindfulness works, but to better understand how, we need more cross-fertilization of ideas and methods between mindfulness and parallel approaches such as clinical hypnosis.  Fallbrook, Calif.   if you have a deliberate editorial policy of having adjacent articles contradict each other. In the current issue we have "Being in the Now," by Amishi P. Jha, closely followed by "Time-Warping Temptations," by David H. Freedman, which advises us not to live in the now. My life has been very instructive in this regard: When I lived in the now, it was always about doing things that messed me up in the long run; whenever I resisted temptation, invested in the future and stalwartly did not yield to impulse, I missed a lot of fun and never got my long-run payoff. After a lifetime of this, it seems to me that a first approximation to wisdom might counsel that impulses for honest, nondamaging fun should not be resisted (things won't be better later!) but that one should invest in the future if it's something you like doing now and will like better later on. Meanwhile I hope these articles that contradict each other will continue! They make the reader think.  Riverside, Calif.  .  .   of , I was disappointed to see the magazine peddling inaccurate myths about mild cognitive impairment (MCI) in "Is Cocoa the Brain Drug of the Future?" by Daisy Yuhas [Head Lines]. The article misleadingly states that MCI is a "precursor to Alzheimer's disease." The fact is that MCI is still a controversial clinical construct. Most unbiased studies show that individuals with the "condition" either stay stable or recover within any given assessment period (no studies appear to have assessed cognition for longer than a 10-year period). Thus, because only a minority of people with MCI progress to dementia, it hardly qualifies as a blanket precursor to Alzheimer's. Currently the best measures of preventing dementia (including Alzheimer's) relate to maintaining a healthy lifestyle, reducing obesity and preventing the onset of type 2 diabetes.  Cardiff, Wales  .  .   about #2, "Put your cell phone in the trunk," on your list of tips in "How to Be a Better Driver," by Sunny Sea Gold [Head Lines]. Anyone who has learned to fly has heard that you must "aviate, navigate, then communicate" for the very reasons you mention, among others. It seems to me that most people seriously underestimate how much their attention is diverted by taking or making a phone call while driving. I know for certain that mine is, so I ignore my phone when it rings while I'm driving. I'm not even entirely sold on talking GPS in cars for the same reason--they can distract a driver at the wrong time. As far as #5 goes, I came to the conclusion decades ago that it was safest to assume all other drivers are "out there to kill me," as psychologist Paul Atchley says. Indeed, I taught our kids to drive with that in mind.  via e-mail   "Is Divorce Bad for Children?" by Hal Arkowitz and Scott O. Lilienfeld [Facts and Fictions in Mental Health], important to me as a divorced father. There was a reference to people whose parents split up when they were young as having greater relationship difficulties. When our twin boys were age four, their mother and I divorced, sparing the children, now age 11, from hearing our arguments. We have 50 percent shared custody, which is facilitated by us living in the same town. Every Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday are my custody days, every Thursday, Friday and Saturday are their mother's, and we alternate Sundays. My ex and I get along better now than when we were married, and the children have a balance of time with each parent. Arkowitz and Lilienfeld made reference to the "noncustodial father" but not to the shared joint custody one. We are alive and well! Don't overlook us!  Bayonne, N.J.   in "Can Training to become Ambidextrous Improve Brain Function?" by Michael Corballis [Ask the Brains]. I'm a professional trumpet player, and for many years I've spent some of my practice time playing left-handed, rather than the usual right. The theory is, if you practice a tough passage left-handed, it will be easier when you go back to your right hand--perhaps because the right side of the brain can now help the left. I hope that it will also open up new synapses and eventually help to stave off dementia. In the meantime, my left-handed practice has paid off in a very practical way when I have injured my right hand and needed to play gigs left-handed.  via e-mail  In "Shaping Perception," by Brian Mossop [Reviews and Recommendations, May/June 2013], the name of the author of is misspelled in two places; his name is Adam Alter. We regret the error. This article was originally published with the title "March/April 2013" in SA Mind 24, 3, 4-5 (July 2013) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0713-4  Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.