Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Even with social media, we max out at 150 real relationships Anthropologists maintain that our hypersocial nature has helped us become a uniquely dominant species. Now social media allows a large percentage of people to communicate effortlessly worldwide ( ), something no other animal can do. Yet despite running up hundreds of friends on Facebook and thousands of followers on Twitter, we are fooling ourselves, scientists say. We can really only maintain about 150 meaningful relationships at any time. Study after study confirms that most people have about five intimate friends, 15 close friends, 50 general friends and 150 acquaintances ( ). Robin Dunbar, an evolutionary psychologist now at the University of Oxford, who had showed this pattern convincingly in the 1990s, revisited his old conclusions in a recent study of several thousand Facebook users. He found that despite social media's explosion, our network of significant contacts still maxes out at around 150. This threshold is imposed by brain size and chemistry, as well as the time it takes to maintain meaningful relationships, Dunbar says. "The time you spend," he adds, "is crucial." This article was originally published with the title "Peak Friends" in Scientific American  319, 3, 104 (September 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0918-104 Mark Fischetti is a senior editor at . He covers all aspects of sustainability. Credit: Nick Higgins Jen Christiansen is senior graphics editor at . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.