Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue In the February issue of biologist Carolynn "K-lynn" L. Smith of Macquarie University in Sydney and science writer Sarah Zielinski describe the . A number of recent insights into the chicken mind have come from experiments involving the use of video displays. Knowing that chickens will watch one another on screen led Smith and her collaborators to create a 3-D animated chicken, which they then used to probe how the birds display for and perceive one another. The virtual chicken also helped them figure out why roosters have wattles. The beauty of the virtual chicken is that the researchers could test the female's reaction to a rooster with a wattle and without one, and watch her responses to wattles of varying size and flexibility--all by altering the appendage digitally. It turns out that the wattle serves as a sort of red flag for the hens, helping them spot a male who has food. Males signal that they have food in order to lure mates, and they do this by twitching and bobbing their heads--movements that set the wattle aflutter. The videos below show the virtual rooster with a wattle (top) and without (bottom).    This article was originally published with the title "Virtual Chicken Experiments Solve Mystery of Why Roosters Have Wattles [Video]" in Scientific American  310, 2,  (February 2014) Kate Wong is a senior editor for evolution and ecology at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.