Read Our Latest Issue "Yes. It has to be cold for it to snow, if your definition of cold is
like that of most folks who live in the mid-latitudes. But the
atmosphere must contain moisture to generate snow--and very cold air
contains very little moisture. Once the air temperature at ground level
drops below about -10 degrees Fahrenheit (-20 degrees Celsius), snowfall
becomes unlikely in most places. Therefore, significant snowfall at such
very low temperatures is rare." For those craving a more technical explanation of the phenomenon,
Fred W. Decker of the Oregon Climate
Service at Oregon State University offers the following: "The maximum concentration of (invisible) water vapor which can occur
in air decreases to extremely low values at very cold temperatures. Most
clouds form through a process called expansion cooling. First, a mass of
air rises, causing it to expand (because of the lower atmospheric
pressure). Expansion causes the air to grow cooler, which reduces the
amount of water vapor it can contain. The 'excess' vapor condenses out
into a cloud. "At very cold temperatures, the expansion cooling process starts in
air that already has a low water vapor content. Hence, the clouds that
form at colder temperatures--if any form at all--contain much less
suspended water in the form of ice crystals, the starting sites for snow
crystal formation. "At higher, but still subfreezing, temperatures, ice crystals hook
onto each other to create snowflakes. In extreme cold, the ice crystals
remain independent. There actually is no such thing as too low a
temperature for some sort of ice crystal to form and for such crystals
to settle out and land on the surface. Such a deposit of ice needles is
not usually considered 'snow,' however; in the Arctic, for instance, we
might refer instead to an ice fog." 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.