Read Our Latest Issue He was the first person to experience an acid trip--for both good and bad Swiss chemist Albert Hofmann, inventor of , died yesterday at the age of 102, just 10 days after the 55th anniversary of his notorious bicycle trip while tripping on "acid". Hofmann, who suffered a heart attack at home in Basel, Switzerland, was the first person to synthesize lysergic acid diethylamide, better known as LSD, and the first human known to experience its .  The drug was the 25th he created from the basic chemical ingredients of ergot, a fungus that forms on rye, in his search for treatments for circulation and respiratory problems. He reports in his 1979 autobiography , that he became restless and dizzy when he accidentally ingested the compound while making it--and "perceived an , extraordinary shapes with intense, kaleidoscopic play of colors" for about two hours.  The very next day (April 19, 1943), he swallowed 0.25 milligram of the acid to confirm that it had caused his odd symptoms. Overcome by dizziness and anxiety, he asked an assistant to bicycle him home; once there, he writes that he was overcome by feelings that he might die (prompting a later call to his physician), along with that included perceiving a kindly neighbor transformed into a malevolent witch.  Sandoz Pharmaceuticals, his employer at the time, tried to promote LSD as a such as schizophrenia under the trade name Delysid by sending samples to psychiatrists--and the compound was briefly used as the treatment du jour in conjunction with psychoanalysis.  But acid swiftly found its way into among artists, writers (such as Aldous Huxley), actors (including established movie stars like Cary Grant), and rebellious teens in the 1950s and 1960s. In fact, it became so popular as a way to "tune in, turn on and drop out" that in 1966 New York State and California made it a crime to possess it; the U.S. government followed suit in 1970.  Hofmann also manufactured a wide range of medical drugs from ergot, including methergine (which is still used to halt bleeding after birth) and hydergine (which improves circulation). In the psychedelic realm, he was also the first to synthesize , the active ingredient in so-called magic mushrooms ( ). David Biello is a contributing editor at . March 20, 2008  --  David Biello December 1, 2007  --  David Jay Brown March 3, 2008 January 31, 2007  --  Nikhil Swaminathan July 12, 2006  --  David Biello November 1, 2006  --  David Biello Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.