Read Our Latest Issue An activity exploring everyday thermodynamics Temperature Heat transfer Thermal sensitivity Thermodynamics   Thanks to our sense of touch, we can all tell the difference between hot and cold. But does the same temperature always feel the same? Have you ever noticed that the bathroom tile feels very cold to your bare feet but your towel, which has been hanging in the same room, feels warm? Why is there such a difference? Try this fun activity and find out!   First we need to consider energy. Heat is a form of energy. When an object gains heat the object's molecules gain kinetic energy and they move faster. Temperature is the objective measure of the average speed of the molecules.  Next we need to consider our sense of touch. Your brain is always sending messages to your hands: "Hey, hands! Grab the doorknob and open the door!" And they return messages, too. Sensory cells in your hands send signals to your brain so it can figure out what your hands are touching. But, as you will find out in this activity, our sensory system doesn't process temperature quite as objectively as a thermometer might.     The objects in your bathroom--the towel, glass, towel rod and tiles--should all be about the same objective temperature. But the temperature you sense from your hand might be vastly different. This has to do with how heat--or energy--moves. When two objects are at different temperatures, heat flows from the hotter one to the cooler one. The metal towel rod probably felt the coolest because metal is a good heat conductor. That means it will rapidly sap heat from your hand, which makes you sense it as cold. The towel, on the other hand, is made of cotton, which is a poor heat conductor. It doesn't suck away your hand's heat, so it seems warmer to the touch. The glass and the tile might have been somewhere in the middle. The way we perceive temperature is by comparison. When you touch an object that is a different temperature than your hand you interpret the flow of heat to or from your hand as the sensation of thermal difference. When heat flows from the skin, its temperature decreases and its sensors "fire" to indicate that the skin is in contact with a cooler object.  Because determining temperature using our sense of touch is comparative, to objectively measure temperature you need to use a thermometer.  If you tried the "Extra" activity, you will see that even your two hands can give you conflicting information if the conditions are right. The hand that held the cold glass told you that the room temperature glass was hot. The hand that had held the hot glass said the room temperature glass was cold. But both hands were holding the same glass--weird! The mixed-up sensations demonstrate how your hands do not sense the temperature of the glass directly. The heat sensors in your skin sense the temperature change caused by heat--or energy--flowing into or out of your hands. When you held the cool glass, your hand got cold. When this cold hand held the room-temperature glass, heat from the glass flowed into your hand to warm it up. Your cold hand gained heat, so it sensed that the glass was warm. When you held the hot glass, your hand gained heat; when your hot hand held the room-temperature glass, heat from your hand flowed into the glass to cool your hand down. Your hot hand lost heat, so it sensed that the glass was cool. There are nerves in your hand that can tell if an object is warmer or cooler than body temperature. But they quickly adapt, and the object starts to feel "normal"--neither warm nor cold. When you moved your hands to the glass filled with room-temperature water, each hand sensed a change from what it had been feeling. Because each hand was holding a glass of a different temperature previously, the change each felt was different--even though they were touching the some thing.    , from Physics4kids.com  , from PBS  , from the University of Illinois  Why Does the Floor Feel Cold When the Towel Feels Warm? was developed by and is featured on page 25 of . Created by Exploratorium, is a book that takes curious kid scientists, ages 8-12, through 24 hours' worth of household investigations, experiments and discoveries. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.