Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the September 2018 issue of John Gribbin makes a number of excellent arguments for humans being the only intelligent life in the galaxy in "Alone in the Milky Way" ["Beyond Us," Part 3 of our single-topic issue, ]. But the same processes that eventually allowed intelligent life to emerge on our planet are still in play. As our galaxy continues to evolve, we might expect increasing opportunities for this situation to be repeated. GREG KONESKY Gribbin's assumptions are preposterous. The galaxy is 100,000 light-years across. We sent our first radio transmissions around 120 years ago, so a response from beings a mere 65 light-years away would still have a distance to travel to us. And how far would our own transmissions go before they became so faint and dispersed as to become unrecognizable? ART CASSEL The accompanying graphic "Chain of Improbable Coincidences" lacks one component: at the moment of the big bang, all the laws of nature happened to exist from the get-go. Science proposes the possibility of innumerable other universes. If true, it's important that ours was just right from the start for these events to even occur. MICHAEL TYLER . In Search of the Multiverse. I applaud Pedro Domingos for rejecting the sentient-AI-will-enslave-us narrative in "Our Digital Doubles" ["Beyond Us," Part 3]. But in his enthusiasm for anticipated uses of supposedly smart tech, he overlooks how overuse could be harmful. For example, he envisions a digital double going on millions of virtual dates and living countless probable lives so that it can deliver you the optimal romantic partner and life. But life and romance are not algorithmic optimization problems comprehensible in the language of computation. What if the costs of going on some bad dates let you to learn something about yourself and others? How will you know what you want without any experiences? Domingos assumes technology necessarily extends human capabilities. As Evan Selinger and I explore in our 2018 book , this is a significant mistake. For millennia, humans have gained and lost capabilities as they developed and used tools. Take what might be our most fundamental capability--free will--which depends on our built sociotechnical environment. Like romance and even our humanity, free will can be lost in a world managed by AI. BRETT M. FRISCHMANN In "The Hardest Problem" ["Why Us?", Part 1], Susan Blackmore explores the debate over the nature of human consciousness and how it might differ from the experiences of other animals. It is difficult not to anthropomorphize nonhuman behavior when observing what appears to be creative activity among some nonhuman primates and perhaps other species. It might be worth hypothesizing that creativity may be an observable marker for consciousness, if only because the animal displaying it must have some capacity for self-reflection and interpretation of its environment and its place in it. ROBERT RODGERS Blackmore says that animals do not share the sense of a conscious "I" that humans have. If so, how can we account for the planning shown by some animals, such as squirrels gathering nuts for the winter or dogs burying bones? Both require the sense of a persistent "I" that will be around, and hungry, in the future. JOHN ORLANDO . . . Menno Schilthuizen's article "Darwin in the City" ["Beyond Us," Part 3] discusses how several species have evolved to adapt to urban environments. It made me wonder what we are doing to ourselves. Are modern medicine and the engineering of our living environments causing us to evolve into a species with low disease resistance and weaker ability to cope with different climates? ED HERMAN In asking the question of how human beings became "a different kind of animal" in "An Evolved Uniqueness" ["Why Us?", Part 1], Kevin Laland emphasizes copying and social learning. Are these really the factors in shaping the difference between humans and other species? How do we use a store of experience to devise solutions to life's challenges? Someone has to think of the novel solution for the first time. The primary difference for human beings, I would suggest, is that we can imagine future possibilities, beyond what we can see or touch now. KEVIN LOUGHRAN Laland soft-pedals the essential role the invention of writing played in making humanity unique. Prior to that development, knowledge had to be stored in a brain and conveyed directly from one individual to another. It was thus susceptible to alteration and vulnerable to annihilation. Writing untied knowledge from the limitations of time and place and raised it to a level that made possible a pervasive, interactive, ever growing culture. PETER GELFAN This article was originally published with the title "Letters" in Scientific American  320, 1, 5-6 (January 2019) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0119-5 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.