Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Every day in the 1920s an Akita named Hachiko came to a Tokyo train station and waited to greet his owner when he got off the train. Even after the man died suddenly at work one day, Hachiko waited in vain at the station every day for his return, for nearly a decade. The profound loyalty of pets is only part of the joy they bring to our lives. Humans have kept close quarters with dogs and cats for millennia--they have served us as guard animals and pest control, but most important, they are often our truest companions and purest friends. The latest study on an experimental fox population is demonstrating how quickly dogs may have become domesticated by humans. And the earliest record of a cat companion goes back nearly 10,000 years. Today roughly two thirds of American households have a pet. I do marvel that I share a home with a small animal--with its walnut-size brain--that follows me about, depends on me and, dare I hope, loves me. This issue is devoted to the most popular pets--dogs and cats--and what science tells us about their brains and their relationships to humans and to each other. Dogs like Hachiko aren't the only animals that display remarkably humanlike emotion. Creatures of many species from wolf to cetacean grieve the loss of relatives or close companions, as Barbara J. King discusses. What, precisely, these animals are experiencing in their minds is still unknown, however, and recent research shows that people frequently misinterpret their pets' feelings. Pets fill our own emotional need to nurture other living things, making us healthier and happier. In fact, what type of animal you own says a lot about your personality--sorry, rabbit caretakers, but you are our most neurotic readers. Animal care shapes our daily routines and can help us forge new friendships or exercise habits, which we struggle to maintain after the death of our furry companions. Beyond exploring our day-to-day interactions with our pets, new research on canine oncology may soon yield promising results for human cancers. As Frans B. M. de Waal writes, numerous scientific studies have found that mammals from mice to nonhuman primates display behaviors indicative of empathy--an emotion that appears to be as old as our early mammalian ancestors. This, to me, explains our connection to our domesticated animal friends: without question and without criticism, they seem to accept our human nature and love us anyway. This article was originally published with the title "Our Truest Companions" in SA Special Editions 27, 4s, 1 (October 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamericandogsandcats0918-1 Andrea Gawrylewski is the collections editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.