Read Our Latest Issue A sailing science project from Science Buddies Physics Forces Friction Engineering Is that a sailboat or a sail ... car? Design and build a toy car powered by the wind in this fun engineering project! You've probably seen a sailboat at some point--but maybe not a "sailcar." Why don't we have more wind-powered cars? Sailboats must zig-zag back and forth if they want to sail directly the wind. It probably wouldn't be very safe if we had cars zig-zagging all over the road on a windy day! Although it might not be practical to use a sailcar on the road in real life, building a toy one is a fun engineering project. When moving air pushes on your car's sail it exerts a force on the sail. This force pushes the car forward. The force, however, must be big enough to overcome any friction in the spinning axles. That friction can be greater if your axles are misaligned or if your wheels are wobbly. You might think you could always make your car go faster by adding a bigger sail. A bigger sail will catch more air, so exert a bigger force, and make the car go faster--right? Not necessarily! A bigger sail is also heavier (it has more mass). It takes more force to move a bigger mass, and a heavier car will also have more friction in its axles. If a sail is too big, it could even make the car so top-heavy that it tips over. What size sail works best? Try this project to find out!  You might have seen that with the smallest sail, your car started out very slowly. The wind exerts a small force on the small sail, so it may be difficult to overcome friction in the axles so the car can start moving. The car will start more quickly and go farther with a larger sail. There can, however, be diminishing returns with larger sails. Eventually the extra air the sail can catch does not make up for all the added weight of the sail, so continuing to make the sail bigger will not make the car go any farther.  from Physics Central  , from Science Buddies  , from  , from  , from Science Buddies Ben Finio is a senior staff scientist at Science Buddies and a lecturer at the Cornell University Sibley School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Follow him on Twitter @BenFinio. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.