Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The young of red-backed fairy wrens emerge from their eggs mimicking mom's tune In utero, babies can tell the difference between loud sounds and voices. They can even distinguish their mother's voice from that of a female stranger. But when it comes to embryonic learning, birds could rule the roost. As recently reported in , some mother birds may teach their young to sing even before they hatch. Newborn chicks can then mimic their mom's call within a few days of entering the world. This pedagogy was first observed in 2012 by Sonia Kleindorfer, a biologist at Flinders University in South Australia, and her colleagues. Female Australian superb fairy wrens were found to repeat one vocalization over and over again while incubating their eggs. When broods hatched, the baby birds made the identical chirp to their mothers--a vocalization that served as their regular "feed me!" call. To find out if the trait was more widespread in birds, the researchers sought the red-backed fairy wren, another species of Australian songbird. First they collected sound data from 67 nests in four sites in Queensland from incubation through posthatching. Then they identified begging calls by analyzing the order and number of notes. A computer analysis blindly compared calls produced by mothers and chicks, ranking them by similarity. It turns out that baby red-backed fairy wrens also emerge chirping like their moms. And the more frequently that mothers had called to their eggs, the more similar were the babies' begging calls. In addition, the team set up a separate experiment that suggested that the nestlings that most closely mimicked their mom's voice were rewarded with the most food. This observation hints that effective embryonic learning could signal neurological prowess of progeny to parents. An evolutionary inference can then be drawn. "As a parent, do you invest in quality offspring, or do you invest in offspring that are in need?" Kleindorfer asks. "Our results suggest that they might be going for quality." This article was originally published with the title "Eggshell Education" in Scientific American  314, 6, 20 (June 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0616-20 Rachel Nuwer is a freelance journalist and author of (Da Capo Press, 2018). She lives in Brooklyn, N.Y. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.