Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The phrase "artificial intelligence," or AI, seems to be on everybody's lips these days--along with a lot of questions. After a spurt of development in the 1950s and 1960s, AI languished for a time. Now advances such as machine learning are driving it into multiple fields of human endeavor, from transportation to medicine to finance. But applying AI successfully for all of us means improving it. And one way to do that, writes researcher Alison Gopnik in our cover story, " ," is to teach its networks to learn like a child. The challenge of helping machines develop like youngsters will provide computer scientists with challenges for years--and the rest of us with some societal conundrums. Should we worry? "Natural stupidity can wreak far more havoc than artificial intelligence," Gopnik writes. Amen. Elsewhere in the issue, we look at more mysteries of the mind--from why the brain likes lying politicians to how thought is a community effort to new solutions for motor neuron scourges such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (Lou Gehrig's disease) and Parkinson's. As ever, we'd love to hear what you think. This article was originally published with the title "From What to Whom?" in SA Mind 28, 5, 2 (September 2017) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0917-2 Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.