Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A closer look at some of the breakthroughs on the cover of the December issue of As contributor Rachel Nuwer explains in our December issue, 40 percent of 40-year-olds in the U.S. wear reading glasses. It's unclear what percentage of that population would be interested in a smartphone or tablet screen that corrects for the flaws in their vision but we predict that the number is high. As it turns out, Gordon Wetzstein of Stanford University and colleagues have developed just such a screen. In this video they explain how it works. . Massachusetts Institute of Technology chemical engineer Armon Sharei and colleagues have so as to insert material and alter cell behavior. As a cell moves through a narrowing channel--one of several thousand on a microchip--the action compresses the cell and tiny holes form in the membrane. The device can process a half million cells per second. Weary from countless hours of slicing and imaging mouse brains, biologist Viviana Gradinaru of California Institute of Technology developed a method for . The technique has already helped Gradinaru and her colleagues map the spread of viruses, and soon it will help in the hunt for cancerous cells.   Muhammad Mustafa Hussain, professor of electrical engineering at King Abdullah University of Science and Technology in Saudi Arabia, . The cell generates a tiny amount of power (a microwatt) but it is enough to do useful work--for example, to run lab-on-a-chip systems capable of diagnosing diseases in the field.  This article was originally published with the title "World Changing Ideas 2014" in Scientific American  311, 6,  (December 2014) Seth Fletcher is chief features editor at . His book, , is about the Event Horizon Telescope and the quest to take the first picture of a black hole. Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.