Read Our Latest Issue Learn how today's scientists are working to update people's perceptions of science, how it's done and who scientists are  Kids form cultural impressions early, deciding where and how they'll fit into the world. Unfortunately, they don't see science in their future often enough. Children as young as kindergarteners, when asked to draw a scientist, are likely to make a picture of a white man in a white lab coat (See --and they don't see themselves that way. But what if they saw that scientists come in all shapes and colors? And what if they saw how cool science actually is as a career? An absolutely charming site invites scientists to change perceptions about what a scientist is or isn't by being themselves: contributors submit their picture and a short description about what they do. Allie Wilkinson, freelance science communicator and social media specialist, created the site to challenge cultural impressions. "The feedback for the project that I have seen across social media has been incredible both in quantity and enthusiasm," she told me in an e-mail. "My inbox is overflowing with scientists, and each time I see the new submissions, I can't help but smile at all of the heartwarming, fun or quirky photos that are coming in." So we invite you to meet some of those scientists by clicking the photos on the right--and, if you're a scientist, maybe you'd like to contribute an image of your own to Wilkinson's site. Want more? You may enjoy seeing how student impressions changed in . The site shows drawings of what 7th graders thought scientists looked like before and after they visited . And if you're a teacher or a scientist, you might check out 's , which connects educators with researcher volunteers who are willing to visit the classroom. You can also about how a visiting biologist at one New York City school changed impressions. Last, scientists can share their personal stories at and via #iamscience on Twitter, which blogger Kevin Zelnio started. See . Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.