Read Our Latest Issue Hints of "new physics" emerge from German accelerators When researchers at
Fermilab a particle accelerator near Batavia, Illinois, confirmed the existence of the top quark in 1995, for many onlookers the
event had all the drama of election night in the former Soviet Union. Quarks are the building bocks of which protons and
neutrons are made. The standard model had demanded that the top quark exist--along with five others previously
detected--and few theorists had seriously doubted that nature would fail to comply. More intriguing results emerged
from Fermilab a year ago. A preliminary analysis of a few anomalous collisions between protons suggested that their
constituent quarks might be made of smaller, more fundamental entities--a direct violation of the Standard Model. After
subsequent analysis, however, the "subquarks" vanished; theorists showed that with minor tweaking, the Standard Model
could easily account for the data. Manyphysicists pray the same will not
happen with the new data from the Deutsches Elektronen Synchrotron, or DESY (pronounced "daisy"). DESY houses the
Hadron Elektron Ring Anlage, or HERA, an accelerator that smashes protons against positrons, the antimatter versions of
electrons. Last fall, teams operating two of HERA's detectors, called ZEUS, independently noticed that a few collisions had
generated strange results: the positrons seemed to be merging with the quarks generated in the collision to form, if only for
the briefest instant, an entirely new particle. Although neither result in itself was statistically significant, together they
seemed substantial enough to merit the attention of the wider community. Indeed, if it holds up, the discovery would be
remarkable. Atoms are made of two elementary particles: leptons, which include electrons and positrons, and quarks. The
results from HERA provide the first evidence of a particle combining aspects of both classes of particle--the leptoquark. The two teams submitted separate papers to the journal . The papers have just been
accepted and should be published in the same issue shortly, according to a spokesperson for DESY. Meanwhile, in response to
burgeoning rumors, the HERA investigators posted reprints of their reports on the Internet in late February. Already dozens
of unreviewed papers speculating on the HERA data have also appeared. Leptoquarks are predicted by certain grand
unified theories; called GUTs, they postulate an underlying unity between the electroweak force, which accounts for
electromagnetism and nuclear decay, and the strong force, which binds quarks together. But all the protons in the universe
would have decayed by now if the leptoquarks actually existed at the energy levels attained in HERA, points out David Miller
of University College London. Leptoquarks also appear in certain versions of supersymmetry; this much loved but still
unverified theory posits an underlying unity between particles that transmit forces and particles that bear mass.
Unfortunately, the HERA results would support a rather ungainly and thus unpopular version of supersymmetry. Theorists
have also proposed that the HERA observations might derive from subquarks or from a new force that couples quarks and
positrons at high energies. HERA researchers expect to have enough additional data to rule out or confirm some of these
hypotheses by the end of this year. There is a 1 percent chance that the "leptoquarks" will turn out to be statistical fluctuations
that the standard model can accomodate, according to Allen Caldwell, a spokesperson for the ZEUS team. Although that
probability seems small, he notes, it must still be considered the most likely outcome, given the history of similar observations. Frank Wilczek of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., took the HERA reports seriously enough to
co-author a paper on their theoretical implications. But he says those implications, given all the other constraints imposed by
previous experiments, evoke explanations that even particle physicists might find too odd to believe. "Whatever is true is
good for physics," Wilczek says. "But it's not what anyone wanted." Caldwell, who at the age of 37 has been "living with the
Standard Model" for his entire career, demurs. He notes that members of his generation have never experienced the thrill of
a totally new and unexpected finding. "Let's hope that this one doesn't go away," he says. John Horgan directs the Center for Science Writings at the Stevens Institute of Technology. His books include , and , available for free at . For many years, he wrote the immensely popular blog for . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.