Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The world's largest hurricane simulator, a plant that points to gold, mail-by-drone and more! The world's longest hurricane simulator begins tests at the University of Miami. It mobilizes 38,000 gallons of water with wind speeds of up to 156 miles per hour and is six times larger than any previous experimental setup. The Pan American Health Organization and the World Health Organization announced that rubella joins smallpox and polio as diseases eradicated from the region with widespread vaccination. Geologists discovered that a spiny African plant seems to grow in dense, forested areas only over kimberlite, a mineral from which most of the world's diamonds are mined. The prime minister publicly shared code he wrote for an automatic Sudoku solver, simultaneously revealing the extent of his computer programming skills. The Swiss Post puts drones to work this summer during a trial period delivering packages. The same model of aircraft has already been used to distribute emergency medical supplies in other countries, such as Haiti. The first baby born with the help of a new in vitro fertilization procedure that adds the mitochondria from stem cells to an egg. The addition may increase the success rate of IVF. It is currently not available in the U.S. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  313, 1, 23 (July 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0715-23 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.