Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Poll results you don't want to touch with a 10-foot poll In early March, Harris Interactive conducted an on-line survey to gauge the attitudes of Americans toward President Barack Obama. The Harris Poll generated some fascinating data. For example, 40 percent of those polled believe Obama is a socialist. (He's not--ask any socialist.) Thirty-two percent believe he is a Muslim. (I had predicted that a Mormon, Jew, Wiccan, atheist and Quetzalcoatl worshipper would become president before America elected a Muslim, so a third of this country actually may be quite open-minded, in an obtuse way.) Also, 14 percent believe that Obama may be the Antichrist. Of those who identified themselves as Republicans, 24 percent think Obama might be. Scientific polling may include multiple questions designed to measure the internal consistency of the responses of those being surveyed. To measure the consistency of the responses of those who think Obama might be the Antichrist, we have prepared an extension of the poll. Please answer the following questions "yes" or "no": This poll also found that 22 percent of Republicans think that Obama "wants the terrorists to win." We assume most of those 22 percent who think that Obama "wants the terrorists to win" are among the 24 percent who think that Obama may be the Antichrist. Therefore, a small percentage of Republicans who think that Obama may be the Antichrist also think that Obama wants the terrorists to lose. If that group includes you, please rate the following three statements from 1 to 5 (1 is "strongly disagree," and 5 is "strongly agree"): Please rate the following 10 statements from 1 to 5 (using above scale): Thank you for participating in this poll. Some respondents may feel this survey is another example of leftist political bias. In fact, these questions and statements are designed not to find out whether an individual has a specific political viewpoint but rather to determine whether the respondent is a minor, middling or major crank. The results are crucial for the proper stocking of personnel and resources of the FEMA internment camps. Again, thank you--and don't forget to mail in your census form. Steve Mirsky was the winner of a Twist contest in 1962, for which he received three crayons and three pieces of construction paper. It remains his most prestigious award. Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.