Read Our Latest Issue These accoutrements to a smart phone can help users plan and track workouts, monitor important health indicators such as glucose and blood pressure, and locate nearby physicians and clinical trials Thousands of health and medical apps can be had for a minute or less of download time, and sometimes a dollar or two. Because choosing among mobile applications can be an overwhelming experience, Scientific American has put together a list--based on functionality, content and customer reviews--of ones you may find useful.  Nowadays, an app exists for tracking most of your routine health needs, whether it be recording distance on a treadmill or finding a clinical trial for a recently diagnosed disease. These tools undoubtedly could help you take care of yourself better, yet there are some caveats that also need to be heeded. Most applications, including the ones in this article, are not regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.  The FDA has that deal with health and medical needs, although the rules address only a small fraction of programs, such as those that accompany already regulated medical devices. So consumers need to use their best judgment and check with a physician to ensure that a particular app meets their individual health needs.    Here are some additional mobile health apps worth checking out:    Free  Monitor your sleep cycles and wake up at the best time for your body.    Free  Assess (not diagnose) your risk of depression, bipolar and anxiety disorders.    Free  Set goals and establish a daily calorie budget that enables you to meet them.    Free  Record your chemotherapy schedule, treatments and select symptoms. Study Confirms Chest X-rays Ineffective for Detecting Lung Cancer November 2, 2011  --  Elena Malykhina August 11, 2011  --  Elena Malykhina July 19, 2011  --  Larry Greenemeier October 26, 2011  --  Jennifer Nalewicki Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.