Read Our Latest Issue An ear-resistible science project from Science Buddies Acoustics Vibration Sound waves Hearing How well do you know your eardrums? You probably know that your eardrum is an essential part of your ear, allowing you to hear the world around you. But why do we call it a drum? It turns out that calling it a drum is a very accurate description of what your eardrum looks like--and what it does inside your ear. To understand how your eardrum works, imagine using a drumstick to bang on a real drum, and then touching the drum with your hand. When you do this, you can feel the vibrations moving through the drum material. Our eardrums work in a similar way, but instead of from the beat of a drumstick, our eardrums vibrate in response to sound waves hitting it. We can't see these sound waves with our eyes. But we can see how they cause vibrations in things around us, just as they do in our eardrums! What we experience as sound is actually a mechanical wave, produced by the back-and-forth vibration of particles in the air (or whatever medium is around our ears--remember sound travels through water, too!). To understand this, imagine (or try) clapping your hands underwater. As your hands move toward each other they gather water, creating a space behind them that the surrounding water particles rush to fill. Once your hands meet, the water particles between your hands are squashed together. You can see the result both of these events as ripples moving away from your clapped hands through the water. Sound waves travel through air in a similar way. When you clap your hands, you displace (or move) the air particles between and around your hands. This creates a compression wave that travels through the air (much like it did in the water). A continuous sound (such as the one produced by a tuning fork) is caused by the vibrations of the fork tines. The tines' vibrations repeatedly compress and displace the air particles around them, causing a repeating pattern of compressions that we hear as a single, continuous tone. The faster the tines move, the less time there is between each compression, causing a higher-frequency sound wave. When this wave hits your ear, it encounters your eardrum. Your eardrum is a very thin membrane that acts as a barrier between the outside world and your inner ear. Although it protects the inside of your ear, your eardrum's real purpose is to transmit sound. When the sound waves hit your eardrum, they cause it to vibrate--the same way that a real drum vibrates when you hit it with a drumstick. The vibrations in your eardrum are then transferred via three tiny bones inside your ear into a fluid-filled chamber called the cochlea (pronounced KOK-lee-uh). Vibrations in your cochlea are transformed into electrical signals that your brain interprets as sound. We hear different sound pitches (highs and lows) based on the sound wave's frequency--the higher its frequency, the higher its pitch. In this activity you will be observing the vibrations caused by sound waves as they pass through a model membrane, just like the vibrations that go through our eardrums! Did playing the tone cause the sugar or salt granules to move around on the wax paper? As the sound wave travels through the wax paper, it causes the paper to vibrate. When you increase the volume of the tone, you are adding energy to the sound wave, resulting in larger vibrations. Eventually these vibrations are large enough to move the sugar or salt on the paper. You may have also noticed that the granules move in different patterns depending on the frequency of the tone. When the frequency of the tone changes, the vibration of the wax paper changes as well, resulting in the changing patterns of sugar or salt grains.  , from Science Buddies  , from Science Buddies  , from Illusions Science  , from BuzzFeedBlue 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.