Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Katydid ear structures resemble those of humans In a striking example of how two unrelated creatures can evolve similar traits, researchers have discovered that a rain--forest katydid has ears remarkably like those of humans and other mammals-even though its hearing organ is tucked into the crook of its front legs. The insect, a yellow-orange-faced katydid ( ) from Gorgona Island in Colombia, has ear structures that are similar to the human eardrum and cochlea. As sound waves approach the katydid's legs, they rock a thin membrane akin to a human eardrum. This membrane translates larger movements from air-pressure waves to smaller, more powerful motions in another structure called the cuticle plate. The plate, in turn, creates ripples in a fluid-filled chamber akin to an unfurled human cochlea. Inside this chamber, sensory cells are arranged like a keyboard from high-to low-frequency sensitivity, much like in humans.  's exquisitely evolved ear may help it avoid predators such as bats, says sensory biologist Fernando Montealegre-Z, now at the University of Lincoln in England and lead author of the study, which appeared in Science. The finding "is yet another remarkable demonstration of convergent evolution," says Ronald R. Hoy, a professor of neurobiology at Cornell University, who was not involved in the work. The efficiency of this minuscule system could inspire engineers to create microsensors based on the katydid's ear design--for example, for use in hearing aids. Such sensors could be less fragile, smaller and more sensitive, potentially spurring applications we have not thought of yet. This article was originally published with the title "Bug-Eared" in Scientific American  308, 2, 19 (February 2013) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0213-19 Marissa is a freelance science journalist in Bozeman, Montana. She was an editorial intern with Scientific American from June 2012 through June 2013. Follow on Twitter @marisfessenden 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.