Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The decision makes efforts to cut hydrofluorocarbons more difficult both in the U.S. and globally One of the most powerful climate pollutants on earth, hydrofluorocarbons or HFCs, account for a small portion of U.S. climate pollution, but scientists say it's important for countries to urgently cut them just because they're so potent--and growing. Efforts to cut HFCs became more difficult both in the U.S. and globally on Tuesday, when a federal appeals court in Washington, D.C., ruled that the Environmental Protection Agency has overstepped its authority in regulating HFCs under the Clean Air Act. leaves the U.S. without an immediate legal mechanism to control HFCs, which amount to about 3 percent of U.S. climate pollution. Though that's a small part of the nation's greenhouse gas emissions, they're between about 1,000 to 12,000 times as potent as carbon dioxide, depending on the specific chemicals used to make HFCs. , a chemical engineering professor at the University of Arizona. in 2015 requiring companies to replace HFCs with another gas as a way to cut America's greenhouse gas emissions. signed by negotiators from the U.S. and 169 other nations in Kigali, Rwanda, last year to help phase out HFCs globally. The agreement, which must be ratified by the U.S. Senate, amended the 1987 to include a ban on HFCs globally. The Montreal Protocol is the international treaty banning chemicals that deplete the ozone layer. , or CFCs, in aerosol cans and refrigerators -- the main cause of the ozone hole. Without recognizing the climate impact, the agency declared that HFCs do not harm the ozone layer and are a safe replacement for CFCs. , a climate and energy law professor at Stanford University unaffiliated with the case. . Without the ban, the EPA estimated that HFC pollution would triple by 2030. The companies said the agency had no authority to use the rule banning chemicals harmful to the ozone layer to also ban chemicals that don't affect the ozone layer, including HFCs. Mexichem declined to comment. Arkema did not respond to requests for comment. that the Obama administration's efforts to cut HFC pollution would help the company slash its most potent HFCs by 50 percent by 2020. The company planned to spend $880 million on research and development to replace its HFCs. The ruling calls into question the U.S. ability to control HFCs without congressional action -- something unlikely to happen because Trump opposes new regulations and Republicans are not inclined to create new ones, Wara said. October 17, 2016  --  Jean Chemnick and ClimateWire May 31, 2017  --  Annie Sneed September 23, 2016  --  Jean Chemnick and ClimateWire Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.