Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the October 2018 issue of As a professor emeritus of genetics who spent many long hours writing grant proposals, I agree with "Rethink Funding," by John P. A. Ioannidis [State of the World's Science 2018]. The system is biased in favor of "politically savvy managers." Yet Ioannidis does not address the overhead funds that line the coffers of universities. With state funding constantly dwindling, they rely on overhead more than ever. This is why academia favors big grant getters over innovative research. Reducing bloated academic administrations would be one modest way to solve the conundrum, but who is going to do that? PAUL F. LURQUIN There is a danger that new ideas will be held back if attention is directed too narrowly on the precision of scientific methods. Such ideas often arise from the use of imprecise approaches. For example, single case studies in medicine, surveys showing correlations in my own field of consumer behavior, and odd observations in astronomy can all lead to major advances because they pick up serendipitous findings that are hard to anticipate. The new ideas that are generated are usually tested by experiments, but such tests often provide limited stimulus for new thinking. ROBERT EAST . As an academic researcher, I was not too surprised to learn that a large fraction of results in even the best journals cannot be reproduced in "Make Research Reproducible," by Shannon Palus [State of the World's Science 2018]. As reported in both Palus's and Ioannidis's articles, researchers have many institutional pressures and personal motivations to publish flashy results and none to replicate those of others. We must explicitly acknowledge, fund and motivate reproduction. It would help if journals had a section or associated publication accepting studies by independent authors seeking to reproduce works previously published by those journals. Their referees would not judge originality or interest but would value methodological rigor, clarity and, possibly, improvement or extension of the results. JOSE M. SOLER I think Palus's note that the original work discussed "appeared in a topflight journal," whereas "the replication effort can be found in a comparatively smaller one" is perhaps her most important observation. What struck me was the high-handed way that some of these journals don't stand by their product. That cheapens the worth of the publication. If you publish a paper, the reputation of the publication is behind that study from a marketing POV. If the paper is later refuted by, or can't be replicated in, another study, you have a duty to publish the latter paper as well. This could be encouraged by an independent organization that simply records the number of times a counter paper was published in a different journal because the original publication refused it. NEIL ROBERTSON . It was fascinating to learn in "The Unsolvable Problem," by Toby S. Cubitt, David Perez-Garcia and Michael Wolf, that certain important questions in theoretical physics are undecidable by computation. In discussing the primary example of such a question, the authors assert that determining the existence, or not, of an energy gap between the lowest energy state of a material and the next state up would depend on the material extending to infinity. Yet in that case, presumably the material itself will be forever unable to decide whether it is gapped or gapless because any causal influence between distant regions can travel only at the speed of light. TONY DURHAM . . . . In "Body Balance" [Advances], Maya Miller reports that developmental biologist Alberto Rosello-Diez and his colleagues found that when they suppressed growth of a limb in a mouse fetus, the surrounding cells communicated with the placenta, which slowed down the growth of the other three limbs to keep them symmetrical. This mechanism for maintaining symmetry in development would, however, work only with placental mammals. How would marsupials manage this coordination? DAVID WEINTRAUB . "The Unsolvable Problem," by Toby S. Cubitt, David Perez-Garcia and Michael Wolf, should have worded a mathematical statement about deriving the number 1 from any whole number in this way: "If you take any whole number and divide it by 2 if it's even or multiply it by 3 and add 1 if it's odd, and then repeat the process, you always eventually reach the number 1." This article was originally published with the title "Letters" in Scientific American  320, 2, 4-5 (February 2019) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0219-4 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.