Read Our Latest Issue Research suggests a powerful way to get out the vote without having to canvas in person As with many areas of life, the coronavirus pandemic has already disrupted the very foundation of our democracy: elections. Political campaigns have struggled to adjust to the new realities of campaigning in a time of social distancing and shelter-in-place orders. Senate campaigns, for example, have suspended door-to-door canvassing and are transitioning to being almost . Getting individuals to vote, whether in person or by mail, is one of the central concerns of most campaigns. Many of them have taken a scientific approach to learning which strategies for increasing turnout they should prioritize, employing randomized evaluations of different tactics. One theme that emerges from this literature is that in-person interactions, whether through or social Election Day " are among the most effective means of getting out the vote. With the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic engendering protracted periods of social distancing and a number of elections on the horizon, however, these in-person interactions may no longer be viable from a public health standpoint. How, then, can campaigns effectively engage voters while engaging in such distancing? Recent research may shed light on a powerful solution to get-out-the-vote efforts even when in-person contact is difficult to achieve: leveraging preexisting personalized social connections. The nonpartisan group uses a model of promoting voter participation that relies on contacts between people who belong to the same social network, such as friends, families, acquaintances or neighbors. In this model, individuals called "captains" commit to identifying and encouraging at least 10 people they know to vote. The captains, in turn, recruit other captains, thereby increasing the reach of these efforts even further. Rigorous research demonstrates that this approach can be substantially more effective than traditional efforts. Turnout Nation has released of its model, which yielded some of the largest impacts on turnout of experimentally tested get-out-the-vote study in recent memory. Our experiment, conducted with 773 individuals in municipal elections in four different states, showed that the estimated effect of the captain model was the size of the average door-to-door canvassing effort. This result is partly attributable to the fact that fewer than 30 percent of individuals typically come to the door in in-person canvassing campaigns. And therein lies the power of the captain model: while it is increasingly difficult to contact strangers, it is increasingly easy to contact one's friends and acquaintances. Leveraging social networks allows for considerable flexibility in the medium of communication. As orders go into effect around the world, people are with ways to stay in touch remotely, from to in contact. Similarly, the barriers to mobilize around voting behavior within one's social network are minimal: the captain model shows that phone calls, e-mails and text messages between friends can be a powerful way of motivating voting. While the intuition that one is more likely to be swayed by friends than strangers is compelling and easy to extend to workplaces, congregations and schools, more research is needed on the efficacy of using social networks for get-out-the-vote efforts in nonmunicipal elections and at scale. Many election officials and voting rights organizations have already noted how the coronavirus pandemic highlights rather than at the polls. At a time when the very act of voting may not be possible in person, it is essential that we test out novel ways of achieving the civic objective of people exercising their franchise. Donald P. Green is Burgess Professor of Political Science at Columbia University and an affiliate of , a research center working to reduce poverty by ensuring that policy is informed by scientific evidence. He is co-author of (Brookings Institution Press, fourth edition, 2019). 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.