Read Our Latest Issue The motion they measured occurs in Scandinavia in a region that was covered by an ice sheet three kilometers thick during the Ice Age. As the ice melted and its heavy weight was lifted, the earth apparently started to bounce back. "The earth is not just springing back vertically, though," says Jerry Mitrovica of the University of Toronto. "It is also springing out in a horizontal motion, and that's something we couldn't measure until we started using GPS." Mitrovica is one of the authors of a new study on the phenomenon, published in today's  The researchers installed 34 advanced climate-controlled GPS sensors throughout Sweden and Finland. "When used in cars, this system will tell a person where they are within a couple of meters on the earth's surface. We've taken that a few steps further," Mitrovica explains. "With the same idea and more sophisticated tools, we've been able to detect motions less than a millimeter per year." The 34 sensors have been recording continuously for the past six years, using 24 different satellites. As the maps below show, there has been an uplift of several millimeters per year throughout Sweden and Finland , as well as horizontal expansion  In prior research, Mitrovica and others created computer simulations of the earth's rebounding action and concluded that it was springing back horizontally and vertically. Until now, they had no way to prove the theory.  6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.