Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Beyond affecting health, atmospheric microbes might also have an important effect on cloud formations and climate Louis Pasteur opened a glass flask on Montanvert Glacier in the French Alps in 1860 and collected some air. A few days later the bottom of that flask was teeming with goo--proof to Pasteur and his colleagues that there was something in the air, something invisible but quite real. Today we understand what that invisible stuff is--microbes aloft in our atmosphere--but despite the more than 150 years that have passed since Pasteur's experiment, scientists are just beginning to understand how microorganisms in the air affect life on earth. Recently scientists captured more than 2,100 species of microbes traversing the Pacific Ocean from Asia to North America on huge plumes of air in the upper troposphere--up to 12 miles above the surface of the earth. A good fraction of them were bacteria, which can mean trouble for human health. In Africa, in a region known as the meningitis belt, dust storms carry the bacterium ( ), which infects around 200,000 people there annually. Yet for most people in most places, the microbes in the air are totally harmless, says David Smith, a microbiologist at the nasa Kennedy Space Center and lead author on the work that found the 2,100 traveling microbes. "You don't need to be worried," says Smith, whose findings were published online last December in the journal Applied and . "This has been happening naturally, always." Beyond health, microbes in the atmosphere might also be important for climate. "We're interested in whether they can contribute appreciably to the concentrations of cloud nuclei," says Susannah Burrows, an atmospheric scientist at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory in Richland, Wash. Bacteria can clump together, forming the seed around which clouds form and thus providing a key component of our atmosphere, she notes. Other researchers wonder exactly how microbes behave while aloft and if they can reproduce as they travel. "We have several indications that microbes in the air are alive and active" and not just hitching a ride, says Paraskevi Polymenakou, an atmospheric microbiologist at the Hellenic Center for Marine Research in Greece. For Dale Griffin, a microbiologist at the U.S. Geological Survey, the questions push beyond the atmosphere. "No matter how high we look, we seem to be able to find life," he says. Smith wonders not just how high that life goes but how it survives at such heights. "As a student in biology, I felt like everything had already been investigated," he says. "The atmosphere allows the opportunity to characterize a place where nobody has looked for life. This article was originally published with the title "Up with Microbes" in Scientific American  308, 3, 14 (March 2013) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0313-14 Rose Eveleth is a writer and producer who explores how humans tangle with science and technology. She's the creator and host Flash Forward, a podcast about possible (and not so possible) futures, and has covered everything from fake tumbleweed farms to million dollar baccarat heists. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.