Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue About a third of Americans believe astrology is "very" or "sort of scientific." But does being a Pisces, Virgo rising really matter in the eyes of science? Is astrology real? Reading horoscopes is a popular diversion, but is there any science to suggest it means anything? As many as 70 million Americans read their daily. Well, that's at least according to the American Federation of Astrologers. According to a study done twenty years ago by the Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life, 25 percent of Americans believed that the positions of the stars and the planets affect our daily lives. In 2012, the General Social Survey found that surveyed consider astrology to be "very" or "sort of scientific" and also reported a decrease--from two-thirds to around one-half--in the fraction of people who consider astrology " ." Astrology is generally defined as the belief that astronomical phenomena, like the stars overhead when you were born or the fact that , have the power to influence the daily events in our lives and our personality traits. This is, of course, very different from the study of astronomy, which is the scientific study of celestial objects, space, and the physics of the universe. A specific aspect of astrology--the forecasting of a person's future or the offering of advice on daily activities via horoscopes--is particularly growing in popularity. Magazines like reported an increase of on horoscope pages in 2017 than in 2016. Clearly, lots of people are looking for ways to interpret the stars for advice. Astrology is founded on understanding the positions of the stars, which seems like a scientific enough pursuit in itself. But is there any science to back up whether astrology impacts our personality and our lives? Here's the short Answer: No. None whatsoever. But since I have you for five more minutes of this six-minute-or-so podcast to fill, let's look at exactly how astrology has been tested. Sabrina Stierwalt, PhD, is an astrophysicist at Occidental College and the host of the podcast on Quick and Dirty Tips. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.