Read Our Latest Issue A survey of executives at companies engaged in energy alternatives to fossil fuels reveals some of the challenges facing the industry Climate change. Energy independence. Air pollution. There are countless arguments for moving beyond fossil fuels for our energy needs. Unfortunately, there are just as many hurdles that must be cleared before we can feasibly count on other sources to supplant oil, coal and natural gas, which currently provide the lion's share of U.S. electricity generation and transportation fuels.  To illuminate the scope of the task, recently surveyed a number of top executives at firms engaged in developing and implementing energy technologies--solar, wind, nuclear, geothermal, biofuels--that could reduce our global dependence on fossil fuels.  The execs were asked to describe some of the challenges facing their industries. In a time of worldwide economic turmoil, many of those challenges are financial, but others are technical, infrastructural and even cultural. Taken together, the surveys provide a blueprint of steps companies, policymakers and consumers must take to wean the U.S. and the world off of fossil fuels or at least limit their use.  This week and the next, we will present the energy executives' surveys in their entirety. Check back as we roll out their responses as follows:  Monday, April 20:   (uranium production)  Tuesday, April 21:   (nuclear)  Wednesday, April 22:  (nuclear)  (microbial fuel production)  Thursday, April 23:  (nuclear)   Friday, April 24:  (renewable fuels)   Monday, April 27:  (wind)  (biofuels)  Tuesday, April 28:  (nuclear)  (solar thermal)  Wednesday, April 29:    (nuclear) Thursday, April 30:  (geothermal and recovered energy) Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.