Read Our Latest Issue A computer simulation gives voice to a long-extinct dinosaur It's 75 million years
ago, and you are somewhere in what is now the San Juan Basin of New Mexico. At the edge of a misty swamp, a family of dinosaurs munches on the
leaves of nearby plants. The adults are almost 25 feet long and have strange mouths resembling duckbills. Even more curious, large, hornlike crests
rise from the tops of their skulls. The biggest dinosaur abruptly stops feeding and looks your way. He raises his crest into the air, takes a deep breath
and suddenly the earth is shaken by a deep rumbling cry of warning. The eerie sound you just heard (if
your browser supports RealAudio) is not the work of a Hollywood audio engineer taking a wild stab at re-creating a saurian bellow for the soundtrack. Instead it may very well come extremely close to reproducing the actual voice of a (PAIR-uh-SOAR-uh-LOW-fuss) dinosaur. Scientists at Sandia National Laboratories and the New Mexico Museum of Natural History and
Science in Albuquerque produced the low-frequency sound by analyzing computerized tomography (CT) scans of a fossilized skull and simulating, on powerful computers, the sounds its internal passages and cavities would produce if air were
blown through them like a musical instrument. is a member of a group of duck-billed dinosaurs known as hadrosaurs--large, plant-eating dinosaurs that lived
during the Late Cretaceous (100 million to 65 million years ago). Some hadrosaurs, such as , bore large, hollow crests on
their heads and are referred to as lambeosaurs. The fossil making this simulation possible was discovered in August 1995 by a crew headed by
Thomas E. Williamson, curator of paleontology at the New Mexico Museum of Natural History and Science. The 4.5-foot-long skull is one of only five ever found, and it is the most complete, lacking only the segment below the eyes; the bony crest
was extremely well preserved ( ). The precise function of the crest has long been a puzzle to paleontologists. Some
believe the feature served to help the dinosaurs recognize one another or as a display during mating, much like a peacock's plumage. The fact that
the crest is riddled with long passageways that connect to the animal's respiratory system also suggested to researchers that it served as a
"radiator" to shed excess heat. Others speculated that the crests were acoustic resonators, capable of producing distinctive sounds. The latter idea
and the unique shape of the crests led researchers to nickname the "trombone dinosaur." David Weishampel of Johns
Hopkins University first analyzed the potential vocal abilities of . He constructed simple plastic models of the crest to
demonstrate that they could amplify low-frequency sounds. But Williamson sought further proof, so he turned to Carl Diegert, a computer scientist
at nearby Sandia National Laboratories. Diegert is part of a group that creates complex, three-dimensional computer models for simulating
problems that cannot be subjected to real-world tests. Diegert and Williamson obtained a CT scan that produced 350 cross sections of the fossil skull and crest at three-millimeter intervals. The
images revealed that the crest had a much more complicated internal structure than anyone had imagined. "Not only are there more tubes than the
simple, trombone like loops described in previous studies, but there are new chambers within the crest," Williamson says. Next, the digitized
cross sections were used to reconstruct an undistorted model of the crest ( ), separating material that was originally
bone from the sandstone and clay that filled the fossil's cavities. Once the scientists had determined the size and shape of the air passages, they were
able to calculate the natural frequency of the sound waves the dinosaur pumped out. "A very complex shape such as the dinosaur crest takes lots and
lots of numbers to describe in the computer," Diegert observes. "It's only recently that computers have become powerful enough to allow that to
happen." Then, the computer was instructed to simulate air blowing through the crest. The resulting sound probably approximates the noises that the
dinosaur crest could produce fairly well. But it is hard to say for certain. The researchers did have to reconstruct some missing dinosaur parts, such
as the beak and nostrils, and the soft tissues of the head and throat that were not fossilized--all of which may have altered the overall sound quality.
In addition, it is not known whether the had vocal cords, and so the researchers simulated sounds passing through vocal
cords and sounds that had not. All in all, they were not disappointed when the call of the rumbled from the speakers.
As predicted, this prehistoric basso profundo was equipped with a rich vibrato and could vary the pitch. The digital paleontologists believe probably had a voice that was distinctive enough to distinguish it from other individuals. "The sound may have been
somewhat birdlike, and it's probably not unreasonable to think they did songs of some sort to call one another," Diegert says. "Fossil records of the
large bones in the dinosaurs' ears compared with corresponding bones in human ears suggest they were able to hear lower frequencies than
humans." The new data advance Sandia's simulation technology and provide important clues into dinosaur life. "This may support lines of
evidence that suggest that hadrosaur dinosaurs were capable of fairly complex social behavior," Williamson says. Moreover, this high-tech
computer simulation may well find other uses that go beyond pure science. arpeggios have been copyrighted, and
moviemakers are said to be interested in licenses. So when the next dinosaur thriller shakes the movie house in Dolby Surround Sound, we
might hear something closer to a real hadrosaur bellow. Could the not so dulcet tones of be next? July 1, 1996  --  Corey S. Powell Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.