Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue U.K. trials of the Oxford and AstraZeneca vaccine have resumed after a brief pause, yet key details of the events have not been released The UK trial of a leading coronavirus vaccine, which was because of safety concerns, restarted on Saturday after the university conducting the trial said an independent committee found that it was safe to do so. The University of Oxford and pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca paused enrolment in the global trials of their vaccine candidate on 6 September, after a person participating in the UK trial experienced an adverse reaction. Scientists say that a pause is not uncommon in large trials, and that a speedy resumption of testing was expected. The episode shows that care is being taken with the trial, they say. "Like anybody else who knows the importance of vaccines, I am very happy that the trial will continue," says Klaus Stohr, a retired influenza researcher who headed the World Health Organization's research and epidemiology division for severe acute respiratory syndrome. But some scientists have criticized the trial sponsors for not releasing more information about the reason for the pause and their decision-making. The University of Oxford and AstraZeneca have not yet released details of the adverse reaction that led to the trial's pause and how the decision to resume the UK study was made. It is also not known whether trials of the vaccine in South Africa, Brazil and the United States will also resume. Marie-Paule Kieny, a vaccine researcher at INSERM, the French national health-research institute in Paris, says she hopes that research groups working on this or other coronavirus vaccines will share more information about clinical-trial holds in future. The transparency bar should be set much higher than this latest example, says Kieny. "When ultimately a vaccine will be made available, public trust will be paramount to ensure public-health impact. And trust needs transparency." David Cyranoski works for magazine. September 9, 2020  --  Nicky Phillips, David Cyranoski, Smriti Mallapaty and Nature magazine September 6, 2020  --  Charles Schmidt August 12, 2020  --  Ewen Callaway and Nature magazine July 27, 2020  --  JoNel Aleccia and Kaiser Health News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.