Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Blood biomarkers could help investigators narrow down a pool of suspects more quickly DNA found at a crime scene can help forensic investigators identify suspects. The genetic information may lead to a match in an existing criminal database or offer clues about physical attributes, such as eye and hair color. But DNA testing takes time--a rare commodity in many cases. Jan Halamek, a chemist at the University at Albany, is searching for new ways to rapidly reduce a pool of suspects: he recently identified a chemical biomarker in blood that can provide a rough estimate of a person's age. Alkaline phosphatase (ALP) is an enzyme that is released during bone growth; its levels generally peak by 18 years of age in women and by 19 in men and then decline with age. As reported in , Halamek and his colleagues have successfully used the enzyme as a proxy for age. So far they have been able to predict, with about 99 percent accuracy, whether a mock blood sample spiked with varying concentrations of ALP hypothetically came from a healthy person who is older or younger than 18. Halamek is now trying to narrow the age range. The study was small--involving fewer than 200 samples--and the technique has not yet been tried in a real-world setting. Plus, there are already (slower) DNA-based methods that can more precisely indicate a person's age, says Manfred Kayser, a molecular biologist at the Erasmus MC medical center in the Netherlands. Ultimately, though, Halamek thinks his test could complement existing analyses and other types of evidence. He hopes these enzyme tests resemble point-of-care diagnostics that offer immediate results. Find high levels of ALP, he says, and investigators could quickly rule out an older suspect: "You can exclude a lot of samples so that they don't need to go to the DNA lab." In earlier experiments, his team found that other biomarkers, including creatine kinase and alanine transaminase, could be used to indicate whether blood came from a man or a woman. This article was originally published with the title "Blood Left at Scene Can Indicate Criminal Age" in Scientific American  315, 3, 16-17 (September 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0916-16b 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.