Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue We need a treaty to protect the warming Arctic from exploitation Snow crabs have arrived off the Arctic coast of Norway, around the islands of Svalbard--foot soldiers in the world's newest territorial battle. The crabs were not seen there at the start of this century, but today multitudes have migrated to the chilly waters. Models project that the snow crab catch could soon reach 170,000 metric tons a year--potentially bringing in about $1 billion and making it, with Arctic cod, one of the region's most lucrative resources. That kind of money is one reason Norway grabbed a Latvian fishing vessel pulling crabs from Svalbard waters this past winter. (The ship was held and later fined.) But there are many other reasons--including the race to pump undersea oil and to establish new military outposts--that have nations with Arctic coasts scrabbling, like aggressive crabs, to establish territorial rights. Ice loss caused by climate change is opening up the Arctic, and it looks like the competition to take advantage has the potential to destroy the region and affect the entire planet. The ice data are unequivocal: NASA reports that the average area of Arctic sea ice that remains after the summer melting season has shrunk by 40 percent since 1980. Winter sea ice has been at record lows for the past three years, according to the U.S. National Snow and Ice Data Center. The newly open area boasts many attractions for nations whose territories extend into the Arctic Circle (Russia, Canada, the U.S., Norway, and four more), as well as countries looking for more efficient shipping routes, such as China. As the ice retreats, financial and national security interests advance. Here is just some of what's at stake: Clearly, the world needs a treaty that governs how we use this valuable region. It is a unique place: parts of the Arctic are national territories, but as a whole, it is a global commons. Oil spills, construction, overfishing, coastal degradation (which will affect the indigenous peoples who live there), and military confrontation could have far-reaching consequences. Such an agreement can't be a mirror of the 1961 Antarctic Treaty, which set aside that entire continent as a research reserve. That one was easy because no country bordered Antarctica and no one lived there. The Arctic is entirely different. Eight nations claim parts of it, and it is home to groups such as the Sami that live in Scandinavian countries and Russia. We need a treaty that sets resource limits in different categories and gets nations to agree on shares. This is a feasible approach: The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea was negotiated between many nations with exactly these kinds of principles. (Only one major seafaring country, the U.S., has refused to sign.) The Arctic Council, made up of the eight Arctic states, is the group to spearhead this, and the time is now. Otherwise the ice will be only the first of many things to disappear. This article was originally published with the title "Ice under Siege" in Scientific American  317, 6, 7 (December 2017) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1217-7 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.