Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue   It sounds like a case of electromagnetic interference, or EMI: radio waves emitted by one device causing undesirable behavior in another. Virtually every piece of electrically powered equipment acts as a radio transmitter, whether it is supposed to or not; the changing electric currents running through these devices naturally radiate electromagnetic waves. This radiation is an inevitable by-product of harnessing electricity to do useful things, analogous to the clanking and clattering of traditional mechanical devices. Computers are particularly "noisy" because they rely on rapidly changing currents to act as clock signals that coordinate their calculations. One possible explanation is that your computer unintentionally emits radio waves in the range of frequencies reserved for cell phone communications, typically around 800 megahertz (millions of cycles per second). If the signal coming from your computer were strong enough, your phone could mistake it for a cell phone transmission--albeit an indecipherable one. Another possibility involves a deeper connection between your two devices. Just as changing currents generate radio waves, radio waves induce electric currents in conducting materials--which is how a metallic antenna allows a radio to detect signals transmitted by radio stations. The radio waves emitted by your computer may induce currents in the amplifier that drives your cell phone's speaker, which would cause it to produce random squeaks and squawks. (In 1975 computer pioneer Steve Dompier cleverly commandeered this effect, with more tuneful results: he programmed his PC, a MITS Altair 8800, so that its EMI would play the Beatles' "The Fool on the Hill" There is no way to stop electrical devices from generating radio waves, but keeping spurious waves under wraps will curb EMI. Most electronic devices are housed in cases--either made of metal or coated with a conductor--that trap these electromagnetic waves, but holes in the cases and thin spots in the coating allow some waves to escape. Usually the leakage is so small that it just affects objects very near the source, which is why your cell phone only acts up right next to your computer.  --B. Easley, Jackson, Miss.  Carbon fuels generally exist in reduced form--that is, the carbon atoms are attached mostly to hydrogen atoms. During combustion, the carbon becomes oxidized (combined with oxygen from the air) to make carbon dioxide (CO ). Because oxygen is far heavier than hydrogen, the product is heavier than what is burned. Take gasoline, for example. One of its primary components, octane, is a molecule made up of eight carbon atoms and 18 hydrogen atoms. The weight of one mole (6.02 10 units) of octane molecules is equal to the weights of eight carbon atoms (at 12 grams per mole each) plus 18 hydrogen atoms (at one gram per mole each). Octane therefore weighs 114 (8 12 + 1 18) grams per mole. The weight of CO is 44 grams per mole (1 12 grams per mole for the carbon and 2 16 grams per mole for the oxygen). If all the octane combusts to carbon dioxide, each of its eight carbon atoms becomes part of a CO molecule, yielding eight CO molecules per octane molecule burned--or eight moles of CO per mole of octane burned. Combusting one mole of octane, therefore, would produce 352 (8 44) grams of CO . Thus, the weight ratio of CO produced to octane burned is 352 to 114, or roughly 3 to 1. Actual ratios will vary, however, because gasoline is not purely octane.  ...   This article was originally published with the title "Ask the Experts" in Scientific American  298, 5, 108 (May 2008) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0508-108 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.