Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Acting Editor in Chief Mariette DiChristina introduces the October 2009 issue of "The year was 2081, and everybody was finally equal. They weren't only equal before God and the law. They were equal every which way. Nobody was smarter than anybody else. Nobody was better looking than anybody else. Nobody was stronger or quicker than anybody else." In the opening of the classic 1961 short story "Harrison Bergeron," novelist Kurt Vonnegut depicted a future in which people who had been born superior in some way over "average" people could not use those gifts to take "unfair" advantage. The strong lugged handicapping weights, the beautiful wore hideous masks and the clever were not permitted to think for stretches longer than 20 seconds or so. "A little mental handicap radio" transmitted earsplitting sounds such as a buzzer, a 21-gun salute or a ball-peen hammer striking a milk bottle. In response, "thoughts fled in panic, like bandits from a burglar alarm." Gun-toting government agents enforced the legislated baseline of mediocrity. When dull but well-meaning Hazel suggests that her husband, George, remove a few lead balls from his "handicap bag," he reminds her of the fines and why he mustn't disobey anyway: "'If I tried to get away with it,' said George, 'then other people'd get away with it and pretty soon we'd be right back in the dark ages again, with everybody competing against everybody else. You wouldn't like that, would you?'" No, she wouldn't. The must-have standards in the real 2081 will likely differ from Vonnegut's unhappy tale, but the desire to achieve them may be uncomfortably similar. Our society, too, seems to be transfixed by the goal of reaching an average--one that is "above average." With cosmetic surgery, we sculpt our bodies to create an ideal of attractiveness. Athletes dip into the medicine cabinet to pump up muscles and speed. Is it any wonder that recent headlines bark about the possibility of taking pills to boost brainpower? As senior writer Gary Stix writes in the cover story, "Turbocharging the Brain," older workers feel the need to vie with agile younger minds, students are pressed to make good grades while pulling all-nighters, and multitaskers want to maintain focus. Pills offer a tantalizingly easy solution. But would such drugs actually be an effective means of sharpening thought, and would they be as relatively harmless over the long term as having the occasional cup of coffee? for an exploration of the science of enhancing cognition--and the issues that it raises. While many people reach eagerly for bottled brain improvements, others are wary of medical enhancements--in the form of more potent vaccines--that would benefit overall public health. Nathalie Garcon and Michel Goldman describe new adjuvants, ingredients that help to stimulate the human immune system, in " ." But hesitation by the public and policy leaders has slowed acceptance in the U.S., as we . Our unequal enthusiasms about what is important to improve say much about the choices we make. Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.