Read Our Latest Issue Industry and environmentalists agree that newly opening waters in the Arctic Ocean should be off-limits to fishing All U.S. waters north of the Bering Strait may soon be . The North Pacific Fishery Management Council--the government body charged with administering Alaskan waters--voted unanimously in Seattle today to close 196,000 square miles (507,600 square kilometers) of ocean to any fishing.  "This will to all commercial fishing," says Jim Ayers, vice president for Pacific and Arctic affairs at ocean conservation organization , based in Juneau, who testified before the vote. "This is the beginning of a concept of large protected marine areas."  These seas--U.S. territorial waters in the Chukchi and Beaufort seas--are not currently fished, but and the northward migration of certain fish species, such as salmon, raises the possibility that they would be in the not too distant future. This vote precludes that possibility unless scientific studies showed that such fishing would not harm Arctic ecosystems or the traditional lifestyle of indigenous populations.  "There is at present too little known about how marine ecosystems function in the Arctic, let alone how they will respond to the dramatic changes in progress, to prescribe safe harvest levels for living marine resources in the U.S. Arctic," 43 marine scientists said in a letter to the Council chair. "Until the rate and likely duration of sea ice losses as well as the ensuing ecosystem responses are better understood, closing the U.S. to commercial fishing is a prudent measure."  The vote requires the , part of the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), to issue a report and the Secretary of Commerce is expected to officially seal the deal as early as this fall. The U.S. Department of State noted at the meeting that this kind of decision provided the needed guidance to formulate a national .  "This gives [the State Department] what they need to engage in conversations with Russia and Canada," Ayers says. And the , a Juneau-based fishing industry group, agrees that the area should be closed.  Although this is good news for fish, it does not mean that the Arctic is free from industrial threats. The Bush administration sold leases for to Shell, and global warming is wreaking havoc by melting sea ice, softening permafrost and even eroding villages and towns. That  prompted towns in Alaska like Shishmaref to file a requiring a reduction in greenhouse gases to preserve their traditional way of life. Other nations, such as Norway, have already begun fishing in newly opened Arctic waters--meaning the U.S.-controlled zone could be a very small refuge unless the government can persuade the seven other nations with to follow suit.  But it does represent the first time that a fishery has been protected before it has nearly disappeared. "[Fishing] laws in the U.S. are set up to just go and fish and then deal with the collapse, like what happened in ," Ayers says. "This is a chance for the U.S. and other nations to actually stop and think about the Arctic Ocean as different than the Mediterranean, Atlantic or Pacific, where we've decimated fisheries and only afterwards worried about saving them." David Biello is a contributing editor at . April 29, 2008  --  David Biello November 2, 2006  --  David Biello March 2, 2005  --  Sarah Graham September 21, 2007  --  David Biello November 10, 2008 Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.