Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A Thames tributary has been recovering since regulations changed in 1991 Rivers act as Earth's arteries and veins, providing sustenance and sweeping away waste to keep terrestrial habitats in shape. By that measure, England is unhealthy: a startling 86 percent of its rivers do not meet water-quality standards, posing a risk to wildlife and human health. A new study offers hope. Invertebrate biodiversity in one Thames River tributary has increased in the past 30 years, thanks to an adjustment in wastewater treatment, scientists at the U.K.'s Center for Ecology & Hydrology have found. "It's starting to reach levels one might expect to find in a river without any wastewater," says environmental scientist Andrew Johnson, lead author on the analysis, which appeared in August in . Invertebrates such as crustaceans, insects and worms are key players in aquatic ecosystems. They shape their environment by digging into riverbeds and filtering water, and they are both predators and prey. These animals also respond quickly to environmental changes, indicating an ecosystem's health. The researchers analyzed data collected by the U.K. Environment Agency between 1977 and 2017 for a 12-kilometer stretch of the River Ray downstream from a large wastewater treatment plant in the southwestern town of Swindon. They found a steady increase in the variety and numbers of invertebrates since June 1991. That timing coincides with the 1991 European Union Urban Wastewater Directive, which pushed treatment plants to switch from filtration to an activated sludge process that uses microbes to break down contaminants. This dramatically cut the organic matter and toxic ammonia going into rivers--and so invertebrate biodiversity slowly improved, the team concluded. "You could liken it to being given a diet of cheeseburgers for 20 years and then switching to a healthy diet," Johnson says. "Recovery is not instant." John Sumpter, an ecotoxicologist at Brunel University London, says this increase most likely boosted diversity among larger creatures, too, and that these results probably apply in other places. Still, published studies showing such improvements are rare. "A big problem is that very few countries have the long-term data sets to conduct the analyses required," he says. The new work suggests that "urban rivers in the U.K. are recovering from the gross pollution problems of the industrial era," says Steve Ormerod, an ecologist at Cardiff University in Wales. But full restoration will require more work and tougher regulations, he adds, noting the growing problem of agricultural pollution: "The basic story of British rivers is one of urban improvement but rural decline." Yet Johnson thinks the River Ray results show a possible path forward. "And maybe," he says, "wildlife is more robust than we'd thought." This article was originally published with the title "Biome Boost" in Scientific American  321, 6, 18 (December 2019) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1219-18b 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.