Read Our Latest Issue The pandemic creates both a need and an opportunity to help kids deal with difficult emotions Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, I've been across the country asking how to help their children process grief. Millions of kids are experiencing grief, not just those who know someone who died from the virus. Death is taking place all around us. Families are suffering. They're also grieving the loss of businesses, livelihoods, freedoms and a sense of normalcy. And in a broad sense there's collective grief, felt by a society or a nation. People have lost our sense of safety and connectedness. Children feel all of this, even if they don't show it outwardly. Meanwhile, children are also grieving the loss of childhood rites of passage, such as school ceremonies and events, organized sports, sleepovers and simply hanging out with their friends. All these losses take a toll. One of the most important things we can do to help kids through this is engage in empathetic listening. And it's a skill that not just parents, but also other caregivers and educators, can develop. A central goal of empathetic listening is to put yourself, as much as possible, to understand their point of view. It's such an important tool of compassion that some doctors have been it. (In a for , Gleb Tsipursky called it a  "vital skill in promoting trusting relationships.") Empathetic listening is a necessity for children, who often feel misunderstood and don't have the same reservoirs of experience or language to express themselves. But it can also be particularly difficult to provide to them. As adults, our natural tendency is to do a lot of talking when kids share their worries. We want to offer them wisdom from our knowledge and experiences, helping them see that things will be okay. When children are processing grief, listening is much more productive. They're generally not looking primarily for solutions or answers. They need a welcoming environment to share their feelings. (University of California professor Gregorio Billikopf Encina the empathetic approach "listening first aid." The goal, he wrote, "is to help empty the large reservoirs of emotion, anger, stress, frustration and other negative feelings.") Lynn Burrell is a school psychologist in Los Angeles and co-founder of , a platform providing parents with one-on-one guidance from child development experts. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.