Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Three books propose ways we can enhance how we think and feel. Self-improvement books often claim that only by changing the way you think--perhaps by picturing yourself in the ideal job, say, or with the perfect mate--will you be able to make your life better. Not so, says psychologist Richard Wiseman. In (Free Press, 2013), Wiseman argues that people need to modify their actions to change how they feel. Research shows, for example, that clenching your fist can motivate you to stay away from unhealthy snacks. He also suggests simple tips for readers, such as smiling to improve their mental state. Want a smarter, healthier brain? You'll have to exercise it, according to neuroscientist Sandra Bond Chapman. Chapman, director of the Center for BrainHealth in Dallas, with Shelly Kirkland, public relations director there, explain that although the brain has the capacity to strengthen itself, as with any muscle, it requires training to stay strong. In (Free Press, 2012), they delineate a fitness plan for your brain--such as learning how to use your new iPhone or teaching a friend how to play Sudoku--to help you think more insightfully and strategically. Asking a person out to dinner or auditioning for the school play can leave you feeling judged or rejected. Yet putting ourselves in vulnerable positions, no matter how difficult, is essential for our well-being and personal development, says Brene Brown, a research professor who studies emotions. In (Gotham, 2012), Brown explores our need to expose ourselves emotionally so as to form meaningful bonds, fall in love or push for a promotion. This article was originally published with the title "Books: Roundup" in SA Mind 23, 6, 69 (January 2013) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0113-69b Victoria Stern is a contributing editor at . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.