Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Third European Union flagship will be similar in size and ambition to graphene and human brain initiatives The European Commission has quietly plans to launch a EUR1-billion (US$1.13 billion) project to boost a raft of quantum technologies--from secure communication networks to ultra-precise gravity sensors and clocks. The initiative, to launch in 2018, will be similar in size, timescale and ambition to two existing European flagships, the decade-long and the , although the exact format has yet to be decided, Nathalie Vandystadt, a commission spokesperson, told . Funding will come from a mixture of sources, including the commission, as well as other European and national funders, she added. The commission is likely to have a "substantial role" in funding the flagship, says Tommaso Calarco, who leads the Integrated Quantum Science and Technology centre at the Universities of Ulm and Stuttgart in Germany. He co-authored a blueprint behind the initiative, which was published in March, called the Countries around the world are investing in these technologies, says Calarco. Without such an initiative, Europe risks becoming a second-tier player, he says. "The time is really now or never." On 19 April, the commission formally announced its intention to support the initiative. Confusingly, the project is included under plans to launch a cloud-computing portal called the , even though the remit of the quantum project will extend far beyond computing. (In the same announcement, the commission said it would spend EUR2 billion on the cloud-computing initiative by 2020). High-profile , and Chinese scientists are nearing the completion of a link--the longest in the world--to send information securely between Beijing and Shanghai. In Europe, the flagship is expected to fuel the development of such technologies, which the commission calls part of a "second quantum revolution" (the first being the unearthing of the rules of the quantum realm, which led to the invention of equipment such as lasers and transistors). The initiative will include support for relatively near-to-market systems, such as quantum-communication networks, ultra-sensitive cameras, and that could help to design new materials. It will also look to the longer term, pushing more-futuristic visions such as all-purpose quantum computers and that fit into mobile phones. Success will be judged by how well the flagship succeeds in boosting industry take up of the technologies and in seeding investment in the field, says Calarco. "If this doesn't happen, it will be a failure. But everyone is very confident it will," he says. Quantum-technology projects already exist in several individual European Union countries, such as the and the Netherlands' QuTech initiative, notes Marco Genovese, a quantum physicist at the Italian National Institute of Metrological Research in Turin. But to reach commercial level in the near future, an EU-wide initiative is essential, he says. "At the moment, EU industry is still only marginally involved," he says. Europe's graphene and brain-project flagships were announced with great fanfare in 2013 after a multiyear competition, but the latest initiative has had a much quieter birth. Calarco says that it was driven by an 18-month dialogue between the commission and a group of researchers who, at the organization's request, produced the manifesto. Not everyone is pleased with the commission's new approach. Hans Lehrach, a geneticist at the Max Planck Institute for Molecular Genetics in Berlin, points out that a narrower but similar proposal surrounding quantum-based information technology, called ICT Beyond Limits, was considered but did not make the shortlist for the 2013 flagship competition. "I find it very surprising that a project which had already been eliminated in the first round in the last flagship competition is simply announced as a new flagship project, without any form of competition of different ideas and concepts against each other," he says. Unsuccessful shortlisted proposals from the 2013 competition--such as his own, which was designed to use data and information technology to improve healthcare--also deserved consideration this time around, he argues. Genovese warns that the new project must be careful to avoid the problems faced by existing giant flagships, which included . "The building of the flagship must involve all the main research groups that have really significantly worked in the field through a bottom-up approach, and the concentration of power should be avoided," he says. The commission is set to announce more details on the initiative at the Quantum Europe Conference in Amsterdam on May 17-18, at which the manifesto will also be officially launched. Elizabeth Gibney is a senior physics reporter for . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.