Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The Heartbleed Internet security flaw has made a mess that might not be cleaned up for awhile The Heartbleed Internet security flaw discovered this week continues to affect thousands of websites, and even some Android phones, home wireless routers and embedded devices. It's likely that this mess won't be cleaned up for quite a while. In the meantime, here are the basics and some useful links. Some (but not all) secure Web, email, instant-messaging and mobile-app communications Some (but not all) home wireless routers, printers and firewalls Some (but not all) Internet networking equipment Some (but not all) Internet-connected devices running embedded software Smartphones and tablets running Android 4.1.1 Jelly Bean (scroll down for how to check your device status) Certain Linux desktop distributions, including Ubuntu Linux Web, email and mobile-app communications that were never meant to be secure Windows PCs, Macs, most Linux desktop and laptop machines iOS devices and most Android devices Change account passwords for affected websites and services Install firmware updates for wireless routers, printers and firewalls when they become available Install updates for devices running Android 4.1.1 Jelly Bean when they become available Install updates for Linux desktop distributions when they become available  (compiled before many patched their servers) 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.