Read Our Latest Issue In answering this question, I need to refer to both the left and right hemispheres, as well as the limbic system. The two hemispheres
are frequently referred to as left brain/right brain. The left brain/right brain concept of brain specialization was thoroughly researched and
documented by the surgeon Joseph Bogen; Robert Ornstein, author of ; and Roger Sperry, the
psychobiologist who conducted landmark "split brain" experiments, that earned him the Nobel Prize in medicine in 1981. Bogen first suggested
to Roger Sperry that he conduct experiments on his so-called "split brained" patients, those whose corpus callosi had been surgically separated to
alleviate intractable epilepsy. These award-winning experiments demonstrated significant differences in the mental capabilities of the brain's two
hemispheres. The left hemisphere was shown to be logical, analytic, quantitative, rational and verbal, whereas the right hemisphere was revealed
to be conceptual, holistic, intuitive, imaginative and non-verbal. Thus a classic dichotomy was born. Many brain researchers and authors have
documented this dichotomy extensively over the past 20 years. Ornstein was among the first, but many others followed. And, through their
writing, they popularized the notion of left brain/right brain mental processing. But having personally researched both brain function and
creativity for the same 20 years, I have concluded that creativity is a mental process utilizing all of the brain's specialized capabilities. It is,
therefore, "whole brained." The significant link to the right brain is pretty clear. The specialized characteristics of the right hemisphere make it the
seat of curiosity, synergy, experimentation, metaphoric thinking, playfulness, solution finding, artistry, flexibility, synthesizing and in general, risk
taking. In addition, it is likely to be opportunistic, future oriented, welcoming of change, and to function as the center of our visualization
capability. Every one of these specialized modes is capable of enhancing an individual's creative thinking. For example, an intuitive idea that
pops into your mind and appears to solve a problem can be experimented with, visualized, integrated with other ideas and ultimately developed
into a possible solution. That's the right hemisphere part. Now, to do something about that possible solution requires different specialized
mental processes, and these, by and large, are located in the left hemisphere. Diagnosing the proposed solution to determine whether it solves the
real problem makes use of our rational processes of analysis and logic. The next creativity step might be how to factoring in sequence, timing
or implementation procedures. Since the right hemisphere and the left hemisphere are massively interconnected (through the corpus callosum), it is
not only possible, but also highly likely, that the creative person can iterate back and forth between these specialized modes to arrive at a practical
solution to a real problem. If the right hemisphere were somehow disconnected from the left and confined to its own specialized thinking modes, it
might be relegated to only "soft" fantasy solutions, pipe dreams or weird ideas that would be difficult, if not impossible, to fully implement in the
real world. The left brain helps keep the right brain on track. Overall, creativity is a whole brain process. The brain is an electrochemical organ
that works on the basis of neural activity that occurs in the cortex; it is well demonstrated that "thinking" takes place exclusively within the cortex. 
There are four main structures in the brain with a "thinking like" cortex. Two of them are the left hemisphere and the right hemisphere. The other
two are the left half of the limbic system and the right half of the limbic system. The limbic system is a bilateral complex of specialized structures
that deal with such processes as memory, emotion, sequence, time, fight or flight and sensory responses. The principal limbic elements, each with
its own cortex, are the hippocampus, the thalamus and the amygdala. Just as the two hemispheres are hardwired together by the corpus callosum,
the two halves of the limbic system are similarly joined by the hippocampal commissure. A model can be constructed that displays the four
thinking structures in four quadrants ( ). This Whole Brain Model depicts the four structures as viewed from the back of
the head. Building on this model, it is also possible to develop two other related models that define the Four Selves
and the Creative Self. The Four Selves model describes the thinking characteristics of an individual in every day
situations, and the Creative Self model describes them when that same individual is acting creatively. The Whole Brain Creativity and
Innovation model ( ) shows how specialized thinking modes are allocated to the four quadrants; interconnecting arrows
illustrate the iterative capability of the brain. What I consider to be the most understandable description of the creative process consists of six
phases: interest, preparation, incubation, illumination, verification and application. Each step of this process has its own characteristic brain
waves. From a left brain/right brain perspective, the creative process can be diagnosed as follows: Interest (left
and right), preparation (left), incubation (right), illumination (right), verification (left) application (left and right). It is a balanced process--four
"lefts" and four "rights." Over the many years that I've worked with this whole brain concept, I've become aware of significant male/female
differences in mental processing preferences and competencies. Several are particularly relevant to creativity. It's clear that although both genders
have left mode and right mode specialties, they are very different. To take advantage of these differences, it is highly desirable to have a balance of
males and females on any creative team. Creative teams comprised of only males or only females are usually mentally incomplete--which often
results in them jumping to early conclusions, arriving at poor solutions or both. In summary, the role of the right hemisphere is essential to the
creative process. But it supplies only a quarter of the thinking needed to realize the full creative process. We also need the left hemisphere and both
halves of the limbic system to optimize creative output. And gender-balanced teams are clearly the most creatively productive 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.