Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue As a 16-year-old boy, Albert Einstein imagined chasing after a beam of light in the vacuum of space. He mused on that vision for years, turning it over in his mind, asking questions about the relation between himself and the beam. Those mental investigations eventually led him to his special theory of relativity. Such thought experiments, which Einstein referred to by the German term , continue to nourish the heart of physics today, especially in the field of quantum mechanics, which he helped to establish. " ," theoretical physicist Stephen L. Adler tells our reporter Tim Folger, referring to the probabilistic nature of quantum reality. Philosophically, this may be true, but it hasn't stopped researchers from testing quantum concepts. Using lasers to excite electrons into emitting photons, a group at Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands ruled out the existence of " ," which Einstein believed were controlling so-called entangled particles--one of the main tenets of quantum theory. Without these mysterious forces, bizarre dynamics could indeed be at work in the quantum world, defying our notions of space and time. Physicist Lee Smolin argues that the fabric of the cosmos is a within an evolving network of relations where causality among events is complex and irrespective of distance. Despite the theoretical mysteries of quantum theory, its real-world applications are growing. Researchers are cooling atomic systems to near absolute zero for use as quantum simulators to . Others are using tabletop experiments to monitor the gravitational fields around entangled objects--minuscule gold or diamond spheres, for example--looking for signs that gravity itself is . At a larger scale, tools such as the Event Horizon Telescope, which recently took the first picture of a black hole, and gravitational-wave detectors could help resolve long-standing, vexing . These quantum insights are fueling tremendous innovation. A team of researchers in China , paving the way for an unhackable quantum-communications network. Computer scientists are , ratcheting up progress toward the heralded quantum computing era. Such applications are still immature, as , yet it's not stopping investors from pouring money into quantum start-ups. Science historians have argued about whether Einstein . Who knows whether he could have imagined the applications his ideas engendered. In any case, the thought experiment continues. This article was originally published with the title "On the Heels of a Light Beam" in SA Special Editions 29, 2s, 1 (April 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanquantumuniverse0320-1 Andrea Gawrylewski is the collections editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.