Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Books and recommendations from by Andrew Blum. Ecco, 2012 In 2006 Alaskan senator Ted Stevens described the Internet as a "series of tubes," a quip that earned the octogenarian widespread mockery. But as Blum notes in his charming look at the physical infrastructure that underlies the Web, Stevens wasn't all that wrong. Bits sail through a worldwide network of fiber-optic cables and come together in junctions where Internet providers connect their pipes to the networks of others. Blum's transcontinental journey exposes some of the important issues confronting the Internet, such as the occasional disconnect between the interests of the corporations who control the physical pipes and the good of the network as a whole. "If you believe the Internet is magic," he writes, "then it's hard to grasp its physical reality." I'd turn this around: only by understanding the physical richness of the Internet can we truly grok the thorny forces that are shaping its growth. by Rebecca Stott. Spiegel & Grau, 2012 Stott grew up in a household in Brighton, England, that was so strictly creationist that her grandfather cut Charles Darwin's entry out of the family's Encyclopedia Britannica. Here Stott pours what remains of her pent-up fascination with Darwin into a beautifully written narrative about his intellectual predecessors. These include Leonardo da Vinci, who understood that shells found in the mountains of Italy meant that the earth was far older than the church would let on, and Aristotle, who understood that gradual change was at the heart of nature. by Morton Meyers. Palgrave Macmillan, 2012 In a series of case studies, Meyers analyzes how credit has been doled out in major scientific discoveries, including the creation of MRI and the development of streptomycin, the first antibiotic against tuberculosis. Readers come away with an enhanced understanding of the conflicting impulses that drive scientists and of the historical context behind present-day research scandals. by Andrew Balmford. University of Chicago Press, 2012 Tired of leaving policy makers and the general public with "a dismal choice between despair and denial," Balmford traveled to six continents to track down environmental success stories. Among them: how villagers in Assam, India, helped to bring back rhinos and how British foresters helped to save heath. Balmford, a conservation scientist, does not gloss over the damage humans have inflicted but reminds us that conservation can pay off. As he says in one tongue-in-cheek passage: we may have halved the populations of wild species since the industrial revolution, but half those species remain. In other words, the glass is half full.  , by Elaine Fox. Basic Books, 2012 , by James Hamilton, and Waterfall: Nature and Culture, by Brian J. Hudson. Both are part of a new Earth series. Reaktion Books, 2012 , by Martin Rees. W. W. Norton, 2012 , by Carl H. Hobbs. Columbia University Press, 2012 World Science Festival. Held May 30-June 3 in New York City and streamed live at  This article was originally published with the title "Recommended" in Scientific American  306, 5, 84-85 (June 2012) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0612-84 Anna Kuchment is a contributing editor at and a staff science writer at the . Previously a reporter, writer and editor with magazine, she is also author of , which is about bacteriophage viruses and their potential as weapons against antibiotic resistance. Credit: Nick Higgins Michael Moyer is the editor in charge of physics and space coverage at Scientific American. Previously he spent eight years at Popular Science magazine, where he was the articles editor. He was awarded the 2005 American Institute of Physics Science Writing Award for his article "Journey to the 10th Dimension," and has appeared on CBS, ABC, CNN, Fox and the Discovery Channel. He studied physics at the University of California at Berkeley and at Columbia University. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.