Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Ancient tartar shows our ancestors ate bark and some other surprising foods A recent scientific discovery had researchers buzzing about, of all things, tartar. That's right, the crusty deposits that the dentist scrapes off your teeth when you go for a cleaning. Except in this case, it was the tartar on the teeth of the nearly two-million-year-old , which has been held up as a candidate ancestor for our genus, . No one had ever before found tartar in an early hominin (a creature on the line leading to humans, after the split from the line leading to chimpanzees). And in analyzing the ancient tartar, the researchers had recovered evidence of what ate. It wasn't at all what they expected. In a paper published in July in , Amanda Henry of the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, Germany, Lee Berger of the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg and their colleagues report on tartar, tooth chemistry and wear-mark analyses conducted on an adult female and a subadult male found at a site just outside Johannesburg. Their tooth chemistry indicated that over their lifetime they dined mostly on trees and shrubs (or, possibly, animals that ate those foods). This is surprising because other hominins of similar antiquity relied more heavily on tropical grasses and sedges. The tartar analysis yielded traces of plant foods no one thought our ancient kin ate, such as bark. Berger notes that many primates use bark as a fallback food during times when fruit is hard to come by. He has speculated that the , whose remains were recovered from what was once a deep underground cave, may have ended up there because drought conditions drove them to try to access a pool of water inside. The bark finding could bolster that scenario. Conventional wisdom holds that adapted to changing environmental conditions that favored the spread of grasslands by incorporating meat into its diet. has small teeth, which are associated with an increase in higher-quality foods such as meat, and dexterous hands that may have been capable of making tools. So did eat meat? With the "type of data we are getting, I think we will reach answers to these questions," Berger says.  This article was originally published with the title "Tooth Sleuths" in Scientific American  307, 3, 28 (September 2012) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0912-28a Kate Wong is a senior editor for evolution and ecology at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.