Read Our Latest Issue Cut out the ridiculous instructions and take back the beep In I drafted a "Cellular Bill of Rights." It documents all the ridiculous ways that cell phone carriers gouge, cheat and double-bill us. One of the most egregious tactics--one that's bugged me for years--is the 15-second recording that the carrier makes us listen to when we're leaving a voice-mail message. Especially when you're in a hurry, having to sit through these idiotic instructions is deeply irritating. ("You may begin speaking at the tone. When you have finished recording, you may hang up.") It's also expensive; it's using up your airtime minutes and putting, all told, $1 billion a year into carriers' pockets. Now, there a "bypass" keystroke. The caller can press a specific key to skip over the inane instructions and jump right to the beep. In fact, it bypasses both the person's own recorded greeting and the carrier's 15-second recording. But the carriers don't tell you about the existence of this keystroke. Furthermore, the key to press is different for each company. For Verizon, it's *; for AT&T and T-Mobile: #; for Sprint: 1. (At least in most parts of the country. The keystroke isn't even consistent within each carrier.) See the problem? To bypass the message all the time, you'd always have to know which carrier uses--which is impossible. The best way to strike back, therefore, is for you to announcethe keystroke to your callers. Make it part of your greeting. ("Hi, this is David. Press star to leave a message right away.") If enough people do that, we'll gradually erode the voicemail-instruction cash cow for the carriers. And maybe, just maybe, we'll chalk up one item for the "Cellular Bill of Rights." David Pogue is the anchor columnist for Yahoo Tech and host of several miniseries on PBS. Credit: Nick Higgins June 1, 2012  --  David Pogue May 1, 2012  --  David Pogue March 1, 2012  --  David Pogue May 15, 2012  --  Christine Gorman June 5, 2012  --  Ferris Jabr Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.