Read Our Latest Issue As the fundamental chemical process that sustains life on Earth, photosynthesis has long been the subject of intense scientific investigation. Researchers have known for years that the process originated in bacteria, yet details of its origin and evolution remained elusive. Now new molecular research reported in the journal is shedding light on the story and pushing back the origin of this pivotal innovation. By sequencing photosynthesis genes in two types of green bacteria and comparing those with data from the other lineages of photosynthetic bacteria, the scientists generated a photosynthesis phylogeny, or family tree. The results revealed that those bacteria containing photosystems in which oxygen is not produced, such as purple bacteria, evolved first. Bacteria containing oxygen-producing photosystems evolved later, in cyanobacteria, which eventually gave rise to the chloroplasts found in today's green plants. The molecular data contradict the conventional scenario for the emergence of this energy-harnessing mechanism. Purple bacteria were thought to have been one of the last bacterial groups to evolve, because bacteriochlorophyll--the bacterial version of the light-capturing molecule--is more complex than the chlorophyll used by green plants. The new data, however, suggest that chlorophyll derived from bacteriochlorophyll, not the other way around. Kate Wong is a senior editor for evolution and ecology at . Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.