Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the July 2011 issue of The problems with the U.S. health care system described by Sharon Begley in " " are accurate. It is gratifying that the National Institutes of Health is finally willing to fund real comparative effectiveness research. But the NIH, under pressure from Congress, has been reluctant to fund studies directly comparing the costs of competing treatments. I retired from the medical research field in part because of this refusal to look for the most effective and least costly answers and to support research on how to reduce unnecessary care. Why is serious cost control not a part of either political party's health care "reform" plans? To get elected, one must accept money from the very groups that require reform and regulation. Consequently, we get cosmetic reforms that never address the real issues that double the cost of health care. Instead reductions in care to the aged and poor are the preferred cost-control mechanisms. Until voters are freed from the election propaganda of special interests, the U.S. will continue to have the world's most costly and least efficient health care system and the worst health care outcomes of any developed nation.   In " ," Trevor Lamb draws together multiple lines of evidence to create a persuasive narrative for the early evolution of the vertebrate eye. But is it fair to equate historical constraints with defects in describing how vertebrate photoreceptors are on the back of the "inside-out" retina, shadowed by blood vessels and overlying cells? Has a possible advantage to this arrangement been ruled out?   In Peter Byrne's interview with Leonard Susskind, " ," Susskind insists that reality may forever be beyond reach of our understanding, partly because of his principle of black hole complementarity, which holds that there is an inherent ambiguity in the fate of objects that fall into a black hole. From the object's point of view, it passes the hole's perimeter and is destroyed at the singularity at its center. To an external observer, it is incinerated at the event horizon. It seems clear that this apparent ambiguity stems from the fact that--according to general relativity--the passage of time differs for the object and observer. What actually happens is that from the vantage point of the observer, the object appears "frozen in time" when it arrives at the event horizon (and permanently disappears from view upon the horizon's expansion). One should not conclude that the object's fate is ambiguous. The event is merely observed in a different way depending on the observer's frame of reference.   In " ," Douglas Fox points out that human intelligence is limited by communication among neurons in the brain, which is limited in turn by the size of our neurons. "The human mind, however," Fox writes, "may have better ways of expanding without the need for further biological evolution." He goes on to suggest social interactions as a means to pool our intelligence with others. What Fox forgets to point out, however, is that as a species we have not yet learned to use our individual brains to full capacity. In fact, a typical person uses only about 10 percent of his or her brain. Rather than dwelling on the constraints imposed on the human mind by nature, wouldn't it be more useful--as well as smarter--to figure out ways to boost and strengthen existing neuronal connections in our brains, thereby making the most of what we already possess?   This article was originally published with the title "Letters" in Scientific American  305, 5, 8-10 (November 2011) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1111-8 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.