Read Our Latest Issue Nature does not plan lightning storms around the location and time schedules of interested scientists, which made it difficult for early workers to study lightning-induced radiation. Joseph Dwyer of the Florida Institute of Technology and Martin Uman of the International Center for Lightning Research and Testing at the University of Florida circumvented this problem by triggering lightning during storms, a common practice among modern lightning researchers. To do this, the team launched a rocket tethered to the ground by a copper wire into a thunderhead, aiming to corral lightning bolts as they struck the rocket and followed the wire to the launch pad. They succeeded in harnessing 37 individual lightning strokes, and found intense bursts of x-ray radiation--each typically depositing tens of megaelectron volts into the detector--associated with 84 percent of them. "How lightning works really needs to be revisited," Dwyer asserts. Several years ago, scientists working atop a mountain in New Mexico measured x-rays from naturally occurring lightning, but their experiment could not be replicated. The new work, detailed today in the journal is the first controlled and repeatable experiment showing that lightning emits energetic radiation. Says Uman, "Our measurements with the controlled lightning will probably lead others to believe that the mountain top measurement was right." 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.