Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The alleged incident occurred in October Dr. Thomas Frieden, the former head of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, was arrested and charged with sexual abuse and harassment on Friday, according to the New York Police Department. Frieden, who led the CDC from 2009 to 2017, is accused of grabbing a woman's buttocks without her permission in October at Frieden's Brooklyn home, according to an NYPD spokeswoman. The woman reported the incident in July, the spokeswoman said. Frieden was expected to be arraigned at a Brooklyn courthouse on Friday. A colleague of Frieden's said the incident involved a longtime friend of the former CDC director and his family who had accused him of "inappropriate physical contact." "I have known and worked closely with Dr. Frieden for nearly 30 years and have seen first-hand that he has the highest ethical standards both personally and professionally," said the colleague, Jose L. Castro, the president and CEO of the public health organization Vital Strategies. "In all of my experiences with him, there have never been any concerns or reports of inappropriate conduct." A spokesman for Frieden said: "This allegation does not reflect Dr. Frieden's public or private behavior or his values over a lifetime of service to improve health around the world." Frieden, 57, was named to head the CDC by former President Barack Obama. He began his tenure as CDC director in the early days of the 2009 H1N1 pandemic. Prior to taking the top job at the CDC, Frieden had been commissioner of New York City's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, where he led an ambitious agenda involving banning trans fats served in food in the city's restaurants and banning smoking in workplaces and restaurants. After leaving the CDC he returned to New York and working to combat disease outbreaks and chronic diseases globally. The organization, called Resolve to Save Lives, is part of the group Vital Strategies. Castro said Frieden informed him of the allegations in April. Although the accuser is not an employee of Vital Strategies, the organization launched an investigation into any possible sexual misconduct allegations, Castro said. The assessment determined there had been no incidents of workplace harassment. "Vital Strategies greatly values the work Dr. Frieden does to advance public health and he has my full confidence," Castro said. Resolve is funded by Bloomberg Philanthropies, the charitable foundation run by his former boss, former New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg. It started with $225 million in funding over five years, including from the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Helen Branswell is STAT's infectious diseases and public health reporter. She comes from the Canadian Press, where she was the medical reporter for the past 15 years. Helen cut her infectious diseases teeth during Toronto's SARS outbreak in 2003 and spent the summer of 2004 embedded at the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In 2010-11 she was a Nieman Global Health Fellow at Harvard, where she focused on polio eradication. Warning: Helen asks lots of questions. Credit: Nick Higgins STAT delivers fast, deep, and tough-minded journalism. We take you inside science labs and hospitals, biotech boardrooms, and political backrooms. We dissect crucial discoveries. We examine controversies and puncture hype. We hold individuals and institutions accountable. We introduce you to the power brokers and personalities who are driving a revolution in human health. These are the stories that matter to us all. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.