Read Our Latest Issue Geologist Andrea Grottoli of Ohio State University, biologist Lisa Rodrigues of Villanova University and ecologist James Palardy of Brown University teamed up to understand why some corals seem to bounce back from warmer seas more quickly than others. They harvested eight branches of each of two different types of coral in the waters off Oahu-- and --and placed them in eight tanks. Four of the tanks mimicked natural conditions while the temperature was raised to 30 degrees Celsius in the rest. As expected, both corals bleached and, after 30 days, the scientists measured the polyps' remaining energy stores. Without the algae that fed them, they were starving. The researchers then returned the samples to the sea for another six weeks of recovery. regained a bit of its color in this time but still had little energy. But managed to regain all its strength and more while remaining entirely algae-free. To understand this miraculous recovery, the researchers restricted both corals access to ambient food. By measuring the amount of plankton each had eaten, they discovered that had increased its feeding on plankton more than fivefold. In effect, this polyp had gone from an efficient grower of algae-provided food to an efficient hunter of plankton. "These superfeeders have an ecological advantage, one that may protect reefs from extinction," Palardy says. "In evolutionary terms, corals that eat more may win." In fact, the so-called rice coral had enough energy reserves to spawn while its competitors lagged far behind. More research will be needed to determine if other corals can switch their feeding patterns as well, but the finding reported in today's provides at least a bit of hope for the survival of the reefs. David Biello is a contributing editor at . April 1, 1999  --  Sasha Nemecek February 15, 2002  --  Greg Mone June 14, 2002  --  Rachael Moeller July 16, 2004  --  Michael Schirber June 19, 2002  --  Sarah Graham Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.