Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Carbon nanotubes, solar cell material, and gene-editing are in crystal balls for next week's announcement In just over a week the world will find out who has won the 109th chemistry Nobel prize. As excitement builds once more, analysts and online commentators are making their predictions on who they think has a chance of securing science's top gong, with suggestions ranging from Crispr to heterogeneous catalysis and perennial also-ran the lithium-ion battery. Clarivate Analytics, which maintains the publication indexing platform , has released their citation laureates, hailing discoveries in the area of C-H functionalisation, heterogeneous catalysis and perovskites as Nobel-worthy. Since 2002, the citation laureates list--which, until last year, was published by Thomson Reuters--attempts to predict winners based on analyses of citation data. Thomson Reuters would get the . Clarivate has put forward US chemists and alongside Russian researcher for the chemistry prize for critical contributions to , a widely used type of reaction that replaces carbon-hydrogen with carbon-carbon or other bonds. Chemical engineer from Stanford University, US, is another possible for the chemistry prize for his fundamental work on heterogeneous catalysis, which has led to advances in ammonia synthesis and fuel cells. Clarivate also put forward from Japan, from South Korea and from the UK, who they suggest might be honoured for the discovery of and their use in solar cells. A trio consisting of chemical physicist and physicist , both from the US, as well as Dutch physicist has been put forward as potential winners of the physics Nobel prize for their work on . Their research concerning carbon nanotubes, graphene and nanoribbons, and their application in electronics are, however, topics that might also be regarded as worthy of a chemistry prize. , author of the blog and researcher at the University of California, US, believes the  , and for their work on . Both DNA researcher and molecular biologist agree,  the Crispr developers have a shot at the chemistry prize. The honour society Sigma Xi, who has been running a Nobel prize prediction contest on their blog, is currently : lithium-ion battery inventors and , or bioinorganic chemistry pioneers and . Lord had also considered Goodenough as a Nobel contender but thinks his recently developed ultra-efficient battery, which attracted criticism from other scientists, might be too controversial for the Nobel committee. The chemistry Nobel prize will be revealed on 4 October, two days after the prize for physiology or medicine, and a day after the physics prize. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.