Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Three books explore the extent to which biology dictates our decisions How much choice do we really have? In (Spiegel and Grau, 2014), neuroscientist D. F. Swaab attempts to answer this age-old question by chronicling brain development from birth to death. He concludes that biology dictates the person we will become starting in the womb and that free will thus does not exist. Swaab admits, however, that his ideas are not meant to be conclusive but to help inform our understanding of human nature. Perhaps a lack of free will can be understood best through our ancestral past. In (Basic Books, 2013), psychologist Douglas Kenrick and business professor Vladas Griskevicius argue that our decisions, even seemingly illogical ones, are driven by deep-seated evolutionary urges to survive and thrive. Compelling as the theory may be, at times the authors try too hard to fit all the evidence into their model. Although our genetic endowment strongly influences decisions, the late education expert Michael E. Martinez posits that we do in fact have the power to choose. In (Oxford University Press, 2013), Martinez argues against long-held views that intelligence is fixed at birth. Drawing on cognitive research and decades as an educator, he provides strategies to sharpen the brain that range from simple tips, such as reading and exercising, to more difficult tasks, such as uncovering and nurturing hidden talents. This article was originally published with the title "Books Roundup: Free Will" in SA Mind 25, 2, 69 (March 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0314-69b Victoria Stern is a contributing editor at . March 1, 2014  --  Brian Mossop March 1, 2014  --  Nina Bai March 1, 2014  --  Robert Epstein March 1, 2014  --  Daisy Yuhas Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.