Read Our Latest Issue Hair is normally maintained through a process that depends on the regeneration of tiny hair follicles. For humans and mice that have mutations in the gene, hair growth starts out normally, but once a strand is shed it cannot grow back. But just how controls the follicle regeneration process was unclear. Catherine C. Thompson of the Kennedy Krieger Research Institute and her colleagues determined that the Hairless protein is normally expressed in progenitor cells that are key for the rest and regrowth phases of follicles. When the team provided the protein to these types of cells in mice genetically modified to lack hair ( ), the animals eventually grew a coat of thick fur ( ). In a paper published online this week by the the scientists report that it is the Hairless protein's interaction with a second protein, known as Wise, that is responsible for the furry flurry. In the absence of the Hairless protein, Wise accumulates in the follicles and prevents the hair cycle from entering the regrowth phase. In that case, the hair follicle stays in its rest stage indefinitely. The Hairless protein won't be bottled anytime soon, however. 
The authors caution that hair follicle regeneration is a complex process, which likely hinges on other signaling pathways in addition to that of the gene. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.