Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Science in meter and verse There was a way of beholding nature that was like a form of prayer. When she painted a caterpillar, she limned the whole bracing saga of its life from birth, instars, and metamorphosis to the plants it gorged on and the predators who stalked, ambushed and gobbled it. Balancing the mingled dramas on one toothy page of vellum, she by the bye bore witness to feats of nature both outlandish and ordinary, such as maggots hatching freely from eggs like many living things, not from dead flesh or dust, without cause or coupling, in a mysterious brew of spontaneous generation. She chose to reveal the smallest, most despised creatures on earth as divine works of nature, and without cant or vanity tag them not in Latin, the scholar's language and of elite circles, but colloquially, in the colorful cant of street talk, inviting men, women, experts and workaday people alike to join her in putting aside the mask of habit, the hostile omens of superstition, any disgust they might harbor about vermin, or fable that bugs toil as Satan's minions, and peer in wonder at the visible but unseen life all around them, dining, sparring, molting, mating, in a mad frenzy of war and survival-- worlds unseen because unnoticed, not because, as piety taught, God purposely hid them from view.  , her paintings said,  . This article was originally published with the title "Maria Sibylla Merian, January 1670" in Scientific American  322, 1, 22 (January 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0120-22 Diane Ackerman is author of 25 works of nonfiction and poetry, including , and . She is currently at work on a novel about Maria Sibylla Merian. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.