Read Our Latest Issue At the start of the so-called Ordovician ice age, about 450 million years ago, the planet went from a state of greenhouse warmth to one of glacial cold, culminating in mass extinctions of ocean life. This period has always posed a problem for climate modelers, notes geologist Matthew Saltzman of Ohio State University. "The models for CO that span that interval have always shown levels that are much too high to have an ice age," he explains. "That was a real paradox." Researchers believe that the last ice age, which began 40 million years ago, was kicked off by the rise of the Himalayas during the collision of tectonic plates and a corresponding plunge in atmospheric carbon dioxide. Ocean deposits of calcium carbonate, or limestone, indicate that CO -rich rainwater stripped calcium and strontium from the Himalayan rock; these elements fused with the carbon dioxide and spilled into the sea, effectively pulling carbon from the atmosphere. The same chemical weathering commenced before the Ordovician ice age, Saltzman and his student Seth Young reported today at a meeting of the Geological Society of America. The pair analyzed the ratio of strontium isotopes in rocks from Nevada and Europe that date to the Ordovician climate reversal. Right before the ice age begins the ratio becomes low in strontium 87, which accumulates as rock ages, suggesting weathering of relatively young rock. And indeed at that time the Appalachians would have been forming from a Japan-like arc of islands smashing onto what is now North America. "We have pretty good evidence that in fact there was a weathering event that had to involve a significant removal of carbon dioxide," Saltzman says. "If you include the strontium data [in CO models] then you can very easily force the drop in CO that hadn't been there." The result helps clear up a "particularly enigmatic" ice age, says geoscientist Lee Kump of Pennsylvania State University. "Solving the enigma is an important step forward" in building confidence in the relationship between CO and climate change, he says. JR Minkel was a news reporter for . October 19, 2006  --  David Biello October 11, 2006  --  David Biello September 28, 2006  --  JR Minkel October 1, 2006  --  Peter D. Ward September 13, 2006  --  JR Minkel Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.