Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Additional resources for Advances articles in the February 2014 issue This new research on the inadequacies of the whooping cough vaccine was published in . The referenced 2012 study on the vaccine's waning immunity can be found in . Background and schedules for the sport of curling in the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia, can be found . This story about gracefully aging freshwater polyps is based on a study in . (Scientific American ) You can read the of this article about how traffic jams affect urban expansion. The story was based on new research in . An extended version of this article about why the U.S. destroyed six tons of illegal elephant ivory can be found . Researchers have found an exception to the accepted rules of molecular bonding in a . This article appears in its full length . Want to hear more about how mushrooms generate their own breeze? Listen to our . The study on the strange physical friction between cornstarch and water cited in this story was published in . The height study referred to in this Q&A comes from . This new research about how the early bird waits to catch the worm was published in Read the of this article about how solar could provide some African villages with more affordable energy. Find an extended version of this article about labeling hard liquor "gluten-free" . The FDA has also produced labeling guidelines, which are available online (pdf). The 2012 interim ruling by the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau can be found here (pdf). The full story about technology inspired by nature and designed for your kitchen is available on our , and is based on a study from . These facts on Internet dating come from a . This article was originally published with the title "Additional Resources" in Scientific American  310, 2,  (February 2014) John Matson is a former reporter and editor for who has written extensively about astronomy and physics. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.