Read Our Latest Issue The presidential election took center stage, but our readers were also fascinated by everything from particle physics and rage disorder to autism in girls and the polar vortex It was a momentous year in science: astronomers detected gravitational waves for the first time, Zika virus spread around the globe and drought accompanied war to fuel a mass migration of refugees in Syria. These were among the stories our editors felt were the most important of 2016, and we invite you to . But we also wanted to know which stories most captured our readers' attention this year, so we looked at the data. Here is a list of the two most visited articles in each of our core topic areas. And because U.S. election news led the headlines in 2016, scroll down to see our top five stories about President-elect Donald Trump. 1. Hints of new, exotic particles observed at CERN's Large Hadron Collider stand to shake up foundational ideas in physics. Read Here: 2. A member of the Cassini mission to Saturn and a science writer made the case that one of Saturn's frigid moons is humans' best option for an extraterrestrial home (sorry, Mars). Read Here: 1. Faced with the rigors of a changing climate, Israel turned its drought-inflicted water deficit into a surplus with a string of new desalination plants. Read Here: 2. A study published in October showed that the polar vortex is shifting toward Europe, raising the potential for icy weather to dip into lower latitudes this winter. Read Here: 1. A long-running investigation of exceptional youths revealed what it takes to produce a whiz kid. Read Here: 2. New research is showing that female children with autism often display unique traits, leading many to be misdiagnosed. Read Here: 1. Researchers devised a new approach to harvesting superstrong fabrics--some even able to conduct electricity. Read Here: 2. In April some of the top minds in physics gathered to debate, in seriousness, whether human existence may just part of an alien's computer program. Read Here: 1. Scientists gathered more evidence that a widespread parasitic infection can alter human mood and behavior. Read Here: 2. Even mild concussions sustained during recreational athletics or other activities might be more detrimental than anyone anticipated. Read Here: Of course, the biggest news of the year--even for science--was the election of businessman and reality TV star Donald J. Trump as the 45th president of the U.S. Here are our top five stories about Trump's successful quest for the Oval Office. In the lead up to the election, evaluated the candidates' knowledge and positions on STEM issues. Read Here: One of our bloggers, psychologist Scott Barry Kaufman, conducted an early assessment of Trump's personality and the true motivation behind his actions. Read Here: In September Trump appointed a notorious climate change doubter, Myron Ebell, as the head of his Environmental Protection Agency transition team. Read Here: As evidence of Trump's troubling views on science, published a collection of his tweets and other public commentary. Read Here: Once the surprising election results were in, one of the country's most renowned journalists issued a call to action. Read Here: Andrea Gawrylewski is the collections editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.