Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The disturbingly high rate may arise from a disconnect between women's ambitions and societal expectations, experts say Women in India are committing suicide at an alarming rate. Research published in the October 2018 issue of the reveals that in 2016 they accounted for more than 36 percent of female suicide deaths globally, despite making up less than 18 percent of the world's female population. Suicide is the leading cause of death among Indian women ages 15 to 29, responsible for about 26 to 33 deaths per 100,000 women in that range. According to the Global Health Data Exchange, a database that tracks worldwide health trends and demographics, India has the highest suicide rate among young and middle-aged women for countries with similar sociodemographics. The situation may be related to a clash between women's aspirations and the rigidity of their social environment, hypothesizes study author Rakhi Dandona, a professor of global health at the Public Health Foundation of India and the University of Washington. As India has developed, women have become better educated and more empowered, and arranged marriages have declined. Yet in many aspects of society, women still possess lower status and face barriers to opportunity. Dandona and other experts suspect this disconnect may drive some to despair. Suicide rates are especially high in southern Indian states, where development and social advances have accelerated. In contrast, Dandona says, suicide rates in the rural, more traditional northern states could be lower because women there may have "less knowledge that they could actually live a better life." "Deaths that occur due to suicide are also a product of the method that is used," says Vikram Patel, a professor of global health at Harvard University, who was not involved in the study. In the West, women attempt suicide more often than men, but men typically use more lethal means, resulting in more deaths. In India, however, Patel says that men and women tend to use the same, more fatal, methods. This article was originally published with the title "India Has a Female Suicide Crisis" in Scientific American  319, 6, 20-21 (December 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1218-20a Dana Smith is a freelance science writer specializing in brains and bodies. She has written for , the , the , NPR, , and , among other outlets. In a previous life, she earned a Ph.D. in experimental psychology from the University of Cambridge. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.