Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Cells get all the glory, but the spaces surrounding them are important, too Neurons, chemical messengers, electric signals--and a lot of empty space. The space between cells takes up a fifth of the volume inside our brains. And although all our thoughts and mental functions traffic through this vital region, scientists are just beginning to unlock its secrets. Neurobiologists Charles Nicholson of New York University and Eva Sykova of the Institute of Experimental Medicine in Prague have developed ways to probe the unseen intercellular space in the brain. By injecting tracers and tracking their diffusion through the living brains of rats and other animals, they have discovered that about 20 percent is extracellular space, filled with cerebrospinal fluid--the same liquid that surrounds and cushions the brain and spinal cord. Nicholson and colleagues also found that diffusion is slow because the many nooks and crannies between cells impede the flow of molecules as they enter microscopic blind alleys and become trapped. Through this pattern of diffusion, chemicals released by nerve cells build up to higher concentrations, which improves communication between neurons. Sykova and her colleagues are studying the way extracellular space changes with disease and aging. Conditions producing a lack of oxygen, such as stroke, shrink the extracellular space. As the space constricts, the diffusion of substances between cells slows, and toxic substances are concentrated, impeding recovery. Aging has the same effect, and the shrinkage may be linked to learning. When Sykova compared elderly rats that were fast learners in a maze test with their slower-learning peers, she found that the quick learners had lost much less extracellular space. This article was originally published with the title "From the Editor" in SA Mind 18, 5, 8 (October 2007) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind1007-8 R. Douglas Fields is a senior investigator at the
National Institutes of Health's Section on Nervous
System Development and Plasticity. He is author
of (BenBella Books, 2020). Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.