Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Cheap energy from sunlight could displace kerosene in African villages In rural sub-Saharan Africa, only one in six people has access to electricity. Kerosene lamps provide a primary light source in many households--at a cost to both health and wealth. A villager in Kenya or Rwanda pays dozens of times more for kerosene than an American spends on grid electricity for a comparable amount of lighting. Charging a mobile phone at a kiosk is even more expensive. "The poorest people in the world are not just paying a bit more for their energy; they're paying a disproportionate amount," says Simon Bransfield-Garth, CEO of Azuri Technologies, a solar services firm based in Cambridge, England. Kerosene lamps also pollute the air, and the fuel poses a poisoning hazard, especially to children. Solar kits for lighting and charging batteries are a promising alternative, but many rural families cannot afford the up-front cost of $50 or more. So Azuri and several other firms sell solar kits on a pay-as-you-go plan, which drives down the customer's initial investment to around $10. Families then pay for energy when they need it or when they can (say, after a successful harvest). After the solar kit is paid off, any subsequent electricity is free. The idea is gaining steam. Azuri counts more than 21,000 solar customers. M-KOPA Solar, which builds on the widespread M-Pesa mobile payment network, serves 40,000 households. And U.S.-based Angaza Design is on track to reach 10,000 customers in the next year or so. Scaling the technology to even more households could prove challenging. Some start-ups are running into limits of capital as they await reimbursement from new customers. The cash-flow constraints only intensify when customers default. Still, the rollout may offer important lessons for the rest of the world. "There are all these debates about when solar will reach grid parity in the U.S. and elsewhere," says Bryan Silverthorn, chief technology officer for Angaza. "Africa is a place where, for a huge swath of the population, solar energy is now the cheapest option. No one knows what will happen next." This article was originally published with the title "Solar on Demand" in Scientific American  310, 2, 24 (February 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0214-24a David Wogan is an engineer and policy researcher who writes about energy, technology, and policy. David's academic and professional background includes a unique blend of technology and policy in the field of energy systems. Most recently, David worked at Austin Energy, a Texas municipal utility, implementing a Department of Energy stimulus grant related to energy efficiency. Previously, David was a member of the Energy & Climate Change team at the White House Council on Environmental Quality for the Obama Administration. David holds two Master's degrees from The University of Texas at Austin in Mechanical Engineering and Public Affairs. While at UT, David was a researcher in the Webber Energy Group, where his research focused on advanced biofuel production to offset petroleum use in the transportation sector. David holds a Bachelor's of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering from The University of Texas at Austin, where he researched nuclear non-proliferation measurement technology. David is a 2013 Aspen Institute Journalism Scholar, joining a select group of journalists from , , and . David lives in Austin, Texas. Follow along on or email him at . 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.