Read Our Latest Issue An engineering exercise from Science Buddies Nanotechnology Matter Strength Engineering   Have you ever seen a superhero movie where the superhero relies on a superstrong material such as Wolverine's adamantium claws, Captain America's vibranium shield or Iron Man's suit of armor? Whereas scientists and engineers in comic books work on creating fictional materials to help superheroes win the day, real-world scientists and engineers are actually already creating superstrong materials that could have a variety of uses--from improved bulletproof vests to stronger ropes to lighter bikes to better spaceships. In this activity you'll explore how simply the of molecules in a material can dramatically affect its strength, using nothing more than sheets of paper. Who knows, maybe this will set you on the path to designing your own super powers!   Nanotechnology is the science of studying materials at the "nano" scale, or the scale of individual atoms and molecules. Just how small is the nanoscale? A nanometer is one of a meter. A typical human hair is about 100,000 nanometers wide--so a nanometer is small!  The structure of a material at the nanoscale can dramatically change how it behaves. For example, pencils contain graphite, which is made up of carbon atoms that are arranged in sheets and can easily slide around. It's easy to write with a pencil because the graphite sheets easily rub off onto paper. Carbon atoms, however, also make up some of the world's materials--diamonds! In diamonds, carbon atoms are tightly packed together, making them so hard that they can cut steel.  Scientists are working on another superstrong version of carbon atoms called carbon nanotubes, which consist of sheets of carbon atoms rolled into tiny cylinders! Although this makes individual carbon nanotubes incredibly strong, mass-producing carbon nanotubes remains a challenge. In this activity you'll compare the strength of paper that is stacked in sheets versus rolled in tubes to simulate the difference between flaky graphite and carbon nanotubes.    Were the rolled sheets of paper stronger than the stacked sheets of paper?  You should have found that sheets of paper rolled into tubes were much stronger, and therefore could hold the weight of more coins, than sheets of paper that were simply stacked on top of one another. Just like the sheets of carbon atoms in the graphite of a pencil, stacked sheets of paper are "flaky"--they can easily slide around on top of one another, which makes them very weak and unable to hold a lot of weight. When a sheet of paper is rolled into a tube, it becomes much stronger, even though it is still the same sheet of paper. This is similar to how carbon atoms become much stronger when they form tiny cylinders in carbon nanotubes. Note that in this activity you modeled the differences between graphite sheets versus carbon nanotubes by comparing paper sheets versus paper tubes. Although physics behaves differently at the nanoscale of individual atoms compared with the "macroscale" (or the scale of everyday objects that we are used to), the general principle is still the same--you can drastically change the strength of a material simply by changing its shape.    , from Science Buddies  , by Chris Woodford at Explain That Stuff! Nanotechnology, Big Things from a Tiny World ( ), from National Nanotechnology Coordination Office  , from Science Buddies 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.