Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A Parisian astronomer tells how he became the unofficial record keeper of exoplanets and when we'll stop discovering new ones Jean Schneider  Astronomer, Paris Observatory  France I discovered the Web at the time, and I found it fantastic. I thought that the search for life in the universe is extremely important, and I wanted to make anything I could to encourage work on the search for life and other planets and possibly to unify the community. It's become one hour every morning. The thing is to be regular. You have to keep up with the literature and with people sending information. At this point I know everybody in the astronomy world, so I know what is going on. There are several reasons for that. First, there is no consensus on what is a planet and what is a brown dwarf [an object that is more massive than a planet but less massive than a star]. We don't know exactly where the planets stop and the brown dwarfs start. Second, there are always errors in measuring mass. But in my opinion, it is better to have a little bit too many objects than only those that are really well confirmed, because this catalogue is also a working tool to help astronomers around the world avoid missing an interesting candidate they can work on. Even so, I estimate that there have been only about five retracted planets, so that is 1 percent. Almost never. In 15 years I have received perhaps five to 10 angry messages and hundreds of encouraging messages. I think the number of planets astronomers discover will increase until about 2030 and then begin to stop. Another step will start, which will be to characterize more and more closely these planets. Detect more and more molecules, investigate the climate of these planets, et cetera. Another thing we could eventually do is cartography of the planet--to make a multipixel image, to really see the continents. But this is in 2050. For me, the first priority is to make a spectroscopic investigation of the planets. That means to make an image of the planetary system and to measure the colors, if you want, of the planets in orbit to see what molecules are in the planets, what is the climate evolution around the orbit--to see seasons. For that we will need a direct imaging of the planetary system. This is the top priority. And it is too bad that the decadal survey did not go this way. John Matson is a former reporter and editor for who has written extensively about astronomy and physics. February 22, 2011  --  THE EDITORS Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.