Read Our Latest Issue Experimenting with plant lignin as a replacement for lithium and other metals, scientists create a rechargeable battery--but much work lies ahead to translate it into a usable power source Despite decades of predictions that a is almost upon us, we still live in a world populated with printed documents. This insatiable demand for -based writing and packaging materials may end up having a silver lining: a component for a new type of low-cost, .  Researchers from Poznan University of Technology in Poland and from Linkoping University in Sweden, have combined a polymer with a waste material from the paper and pulp industry to create a new kind of battery cathode, which today are mostly made from nonrenewable metals such as lithium or cobalt. Specifically, Milczarek and Inganas used lignin, an organic substance binding the cells, fibers and vessels that make up wood. Plants are made up of as much as 30 percent lignin, is the second-most abundant renewable carbon source on the planet after cellulose, according to the . Each year, paper processing generates between 35 million and 45 million metric tons of a dark waste product known as brown liquor, which is rich in lignin derivatives.   consist of electrochemical cells with two electrodes--an anode and a cathode--and are filled with an electrolyte. The aggregate effect of the chemical reactions taking place within the electrolyte creates a flow of electrons between the anode and the cathode, resulting in the discharge of electricity.  Milczarek and Inganas combined lignin derivatives with a polymer known as to make their test cathodes, which varied in thickness. The insulating qualities of lignin derivatives combined with the conductivity of polypyrrole create a composite material that effectively holds an electric charge, according to the scientists, whose research appears in the March 23 issue of Science.  The inspiration for the research came from the process plants use to convert light energy to stored chemical energy. In photosynthesis, electrochemically active molecules known as transport electrons and protons, Inganas explains. Animals also make use of quinones in metabolism, "to build the pH gradient which drives synthesis of ATP, or adenosine triphosphate," he adds. If nature could create such a renewable metabolic process, the professor of biomolecular and organic electronics reasons, why not consider it as the basis for charge storage in a renewable system?  The researchers have much work ahead of them, and Inganas cautions that it is premature to compare their prototype battery system with inorganic two-electrode batteries fabricated with metals. "There are many things to do in order to improve the charge density of the electrode, which is what we are doing now," Inganas says.  The biggest disadvantage to the proposed approach, however, is that the electrodes lose their charge within hours when they are idle. The researchers hope that different types of lignin derivatives could solve the problem. Given the diversity of plant life on this planet, there is no shortage of samples for the researchers to study. Larry Greenemeier is the associate editor of technology for , covering a variety of tech-related topics, including biotech, computers, military tech, nanotech and robots. Credit: Nick Higgins May 29, 2006 February 12, 2008  --  David Biello October 1, 2011  --  Philip Ball October 26, 2010  --  David Biello Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.