Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Some of the most talented and dangerous cybercrooks and cyberwarriors come from Russia, a longtime meddler in other countries' affairs Beyond carrying all of our phone, text and internet communications, cyberspace is an active battleground, with cybercriminals, government agents and even military personnel probing weaknesses in corporate, national and even personal online defenses. Some of the most talented and dangerous cybercrooks and cyberwarriors come from Russia, which is a longtime meddler in other countries' affairs. Over decades, Russian operators have stolen terabytes of data, taken control of millions of computers and raked in billions of dollars. They've and and elsewhere. They've engaged in and disclosed pilfered information such as the following . Who are these operators, why are they so skilled and what are they up to? The Russian cyberthreat dates back to at least 1986 when Cliff Stoll, then a system administrator at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, linked a 75-cent accounting error to intrusions into the lab's computers. The hacker was after military secrets, downloading documents with important keywords such as "nuclear." A lengthy investigation, described in Stoll's book " ," led to a German hacker who was selling the stolen data to what was then the Soviet Union. By the late 1990s, Russian cyberespionage had grown to include the multi-year " " intrusions into U.S. military and other government computers, foretelling the massive espionage from Russia today. The 1990s also saw the arrest of , a computer operator in St. Petersburg. Levin tried to steal more than US$10 million by hacking Citibank accounts, foreshadowing Russia's prominence in cybercrime. And Russian hackers defaced U.S. websites during the , portending Russia's extensive use of disruptive and damaging cyberattacks. In more recent years, Russia has been behind some of the most sophisticated cyberattacks on record. The knocked out power to almost a quarter-million people. Cybersecurity analysts from the Electricity Information Sharing and Analysis Center and the SANS Institute reported that the multi-staged attacks were conducted by a " ." Ukraine . The attackers used a and adapted to the targets they faced. They used email messages to gain initial access to systems. They installed " " malware to establish remote control over the infected devices. They harvested credentials to move through the networks. They developed custom malicious firmware to render system control devices inoperable. They hijacked the system to open circuit breakers in substations. They used " " malware to erase the master boot record of affected systems. The attackers even went so far as to strike the control stations' battery backups and tie up the energy company's call center with . The Russians with more advanced tools to take down a major artery of Ukraine's power grid. Russia is believed to have also invaded energy companies in the U.S., including those operating . Russia has many skilled cyberoperators, and for good reason: Their and computer science, more so than in the U.S. Every year, Russian schools take a disproportionate number of the top spots in the . In the 2016 contest, St. Petersburg State University took the top spot for the fifth time in a row, and four other Russian schools also made the top 12. In 2017, St. Petersburg ITMO University won, with two other Russian schools also placing in the top 12. The top U.S. school ranked 13th. As Russia prepared to form a cyberbranch within its military, Minister of Defense took note of Russian students' performance in the contest. "We have to work with these guys somehow, because we need them badly," he said in a public meeting with university administrators. Russia employs cyberwarriors within its military and . Indeed, the cyberespionage groups dubbed APT28 (aka Fancy Bear) and APT29 (aka Cozy Bear and The Dukes) are believed to respectively. Both groups have been implicated in hundreds of cyberoperations over the past decade, including U.S. election hacking. Russia from its colleges, but also from the cybersecurity and cybercrime sectors. It is said to turn a to its criminal hackers as long as they avoid Russian targets and use their skills to aid the government. According to , co-founder of the security firm CrowdStrike, when Moscow identifies a talented cybercriminal, any pending criminal case against the person is dropped and the hacker disappears into the Russian intelligence services. , with a reward of $3 million for cybercrimes, is also on the in response to interference in the U.S. election. Bogachev is said to work " ." Besides its in-house capabilities, the Russian government has access to hackers and the Russian media. Analyst Sarah Geary at cybersecurity firm FireEye "disseminate propaganda on behalf of Moscow, develop cybertools for Russian intelligence agencies like the FSB and GRU, and hack into networks and databases in support of Russian security objectives." Many seemingly independent " " operate on Russia's behalf. Most notably, they attacked critical systems in over the relocation of a Soviet-era memorial, during the Russo-Georgian War and in connection with the conflict between the two countries. At the very least, the Russian government condones, even encourages, these hackers. After some of the Estonian attacks were traced back to Russia, Estonia's request for help - even as a commissar in Russia's pro-Kremlin youth movement Nashi . And when Slavic Union hackers successfully attacked Israeli websites in 2006, gave the group a certificate of appreciation. He noted that "a small force of hackers is stronger than the multi-thousand force of the current armed forces." While some patriotic hackers may indeed operate independently of Moscow, others seem to have strong ties. , one of the groups that conducted cyberattacks against Ukraine, including its central election site, is said to be a cyberactivity. And Russia's espionage group while attacking the French station TV5 Monde and taking over the Twitter account of U.S. Central Command. Although Russia poses a major cyberthreat, it is not the only country that threatens the U.S. in cyberspace. are also countries with strong cyberattack capabilities, and more countries will join the pool as they develop their people's skills. The good news is that (such as monitoring access to sensitive files) that work against Russia also work against other threat actors. The bad news is that many organizations do not take those steps. Further, hackers find new vulnerabilities in devices and exploit the weakest link of all-- . Whether cyberdefenses will evolve to avert a major calamity, from Russia or anywhere else, remains to be seen. Dorothy Denning is an Emeritus Distinguished Professor of Defense Analysis, Naval Postgraduate School. December 21, 2016  --  Larry Greenemeier October 18, 2016  --  Larry Greenemeier January 28, 2016  --  Larry Greenemeier April 21, 2009  --  Larry Greenemeier August 18, 2008  --  Dorothy E. Denning Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.