Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A decade ago Apple didn't just create a phone with some extra features, it introduced a full-fledged handheld computer that could also make calls and browse the internet When the iPhone emerged in 2007, it came with all the promise and pomp of a major Steve Jobs announcement, highlighting its user interface and slick design as key selling points. We know now that the iPhone transformed the mobile phone business, the internet economy and, in many ways, society as a whole. But technically speaking, the iPhone was not very innovative. Its software and the interface idea were based on the iPod, which was already . Touchscreens had appeared on earlier phone and tablet models, including . And had more memory, better cameras and faster mobile connectivity. What made the iPhone transformative was the : Its designers did not create a telephone with some extra features, but rather a full-fledged hand-held computer that could also make calls and browse the internet. As a , I find it hard to predict what the next truly revolutionary technological development will be. In the 10 years since the launch of the iPhone, . In part that's because the iPhone, and the smartphone boom it spurred, created a portable personal technology infrastructure that's almost infinitely expandable. The iPhone changed the game not because of its initial technology and cool user interface but rather as a result of its creators' imagination and courage. As the iPhone took shape, its designers found themselves . Engineers and marketing executives alike worried the new device would kill the iPod market that had . Nokia, , had similar technologies and prototypes, and also its own successful mobile phone product lines that used a simpler and more old-fashioned software platform than that on which iPhone was built. Apple took the leap, however, by installing a fully capable computer operating system on the iPhone, along with a few small application programs. Some were phone-related, including a program that handled making and receiving calls, as well as , and a system that kept different contacts' text messages separate. Others were more computer-like, including an email app and a web browser. Of course, the music-playing features from the iPod were included too, linking the phone with the emerging Apple music ecosystem. Initially, that was about it for apps. But knew they were holding a palm-sized computer, and set to work writing their own software and . That was the dawn of the now-ubiquitous app. Within a year, these apps were so popular, and their potential so significant, that made it easy (and legal) for users to install . The prospect of making a fully functional hand-held computer changed how users and manufacturers alike thought about mobile phones. For Apple and every other phone company, . What apps a phone could run, and how quickly, mattered much more than whether it had a slightly better camera or could hold a few more photos; whether it flipped open, slid open or was a bar-style; or whether it had a large keyboard or a small one. The iPhone's and software-generated, making a function that had required dedicated hardware into one running on generic hardware and dedicated software. At the time of the iPhone launch, Nokia offered about 200 of its hundreds of millions of customers. There was just one iPhone model at the start, and in the ensuing decade there have been only - though today they come in different colors, not just white and black as the original did. This is the power of software functionality and related simplicity. The heightened importance of software on a mobile phone shifted the industry's economy as well. The money came now not just from selling devices and phone services, but also from marketing and selling apps and in-app advertisements. with the , providing serious earning power: Apple holds , but reaps . Whatever the next tech industry game-changer is, and whenever it arrives, it will likely have some connection to the smartphone and related infrastructure. Even today, requires only installing an app and connecting just a bit of additional hardware to an existing phone. Similarly, smartphone interfaces and cameras already . Even as devices are developed to operate all around us, and , many of them will be able to point to the iPhone as a conceptual ancestor and inspiration. Iris S. Wolstein Professor of Management Design, Case Western Reserve University 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.