Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Octopuses can make themselves invisible Amazing masters of disguise, octopuses can essentially vanish, right before your eyes, into a complex scene of colorful coral or a clump of kelp waving in the currents. How do these invertebrates manage this quick-change feat? Small pigment-filled cells, called chromatophores, and reflective ones, called iridophores and leucophores, in the skin of most octopuses allow them to create nuanced patterns of color and luminosity and even to harness polarized light to fool other ocean life. Scientists, however, have debated just what information they use to craft this overall effect. A paper published online in suggests octopuses focus on a limited selection of nearby objects to determine their disguise, as opposed to incorporating the general hues and patterns of a whole area into their skin display. The researchers, from Ben-Gurion University of the Negev in Israel and the Anton Dohrn Zoological Station Naples in Italy, studied digital underwater photographs of the common octopus ( ) and the day octopus ( ) camouflaging in their natural habitats. They then ran those images through a computer program that picks out clusters of similar colors, lights and patterns. The almost invisible octopuses in the images most closely matched distinct landmarks such as corals or noticeable rocks. The new paper does not, however, solve the debate about how these color-blind animals can create such a stunning, full-color display. The discovery of light-sensing proteins (opsins) in their skin suggests that they might be able to detect and react to color and light conditions locally. Yet so far only one hue of these cells has been discovered, so scientists are still searching for more clues about how these crazy cephalopods choose their wild disguises. This article was originally published with the title "Vanishing in Plain Sight" in Scientific American  307, 2, 29 (August 2012) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0812-29b 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.