Read Our Latest Issue As the 's sinking and 's grounding demonstrate, no amount of engineering can completely compensate for human error The claim that the RMS was may have been more a marketing tactic than a commentary on its engineering, but its prelaunch reputation of being impervious to the perils of the high seas has lingered for the past 100 years.  It is dangerous to cast engineering projects in such absolute terms--of course there had to be some combination of conditions under which the ocean liner would have failed. As elegant and grand as it was, however, the --like any other ship--was far from unsinkable.  At nearly 275 meters long with a gross weight of about 42,000 metric tons, the was the largest ship ever built at the time. It featured 16 major watertight compartments in its lower section that could be sealed off in the event of a punctured hull. Yet the luxury liner sank less than three hours after colliding with a massive iceberg in the North Atlantic, despite some estimates that it should have been able to stay afloat for as long as .  The watertight compartments proved to be a fatal design flaw--one that illustrated well early in his 1997 film recounting the fateful April night in 1912 when the sunk, taking about two thirds of her 2,200 passengers into the icy waters with her. The 90-meter gash in the 's hull caused the ship to take on water near its bow, flooding six of the compartments. When enough water had penetrated the hull breach, the ship pitched forward at an angle that caused water from the individual compartments to spill over their bulkheads, inundating the front of the ship and sending the like a torpedo to the ocean bottom almost four kilometers below. Had the bulkheads been higher, or watertight at the top as well as the bottom, the water rushing into the hull might have been distributed more evenly, giving passengers more time to escape.  Ironically, builders of the were given a preview of how their ship might react to a hull breach several months before it even left port. On September 20, 1911, 's sister ship, , was broadsided by the , which ripped away metal plates and riveted joints, leaving an 11-meter opening in the starboard side of the 's hull. The collision caused the flooding of two of the 's lower compartments, but the ship was able to make it back to port, perhaps contributing to the unsinkability myth.  Engineering and design are an important part of any construction project, but they are part of a larger system that includes the people that will manage and use the project's end product, whether it is an ocean liner, suspension bridge or spacecraft. spoke with , a professor of both civil engineering and history at Duke University and author of , about the folly of believing a design is infallible, the 's fatal flaws, and how even the best-engineered technology fails when a larger system breaks down.  [ ]   The short answer is no. And anyway, it seems the claim that it was unsinkable didn't come from engineers but rather from advertisements for the . The ship had a lot of design features--such as the watertight compartments and their bulkheads--that may have led people to believe that it wouldn't sink.  Any design, whether it's for a ship or an airplane, must be done in anticipation of potential failures. In the case of the , the engineers would have been asking themselves: "What if we have a hole in the hull?" Well, water's going to come in. "How much water?" That depends on how big the hole is, so you have to make those calculations. You can always imagine a bigger hole or some worse condition.   Probably the fact that the bulkheads didn't go higher, so that they weren't truly watertight and didn't actually compartmentalize water between the bulkheads. Other design elements meant to ensure passenger safety weren't adhered to. Although the ship was designed to carry enough lifeboats, it wasn't at the time of the accident, for example. That would be unheard of today. They had radio, which they called wireless back then, for calling other ships, but it was seen more as a novelty at the time, and ships turned them off after hours.  The also failed to incorporate a crucial safety feature available long before its maiden voyage. In the 1850s there was a designed by Isambard Kingdom Brunel and built by John Scott Russell that featured a . A double hull is a similar concept to bulkheads. Water comes in but you keep it from overtaking the interior of the hull. Generally speaking, the distance between the hulls is not that great, so the amount of water that gets in won't be that great. The debate over double hulls goes on to this day. After the there was a question as to whether all oil tankers should have double hulls.  This is a point of debate. Looking at the long view, even though double hulls did exist at the time there would have been pressures on shipbuilders not to build double-hulled ships simply because they would be more expensive. There would also be a tendency among ship owners, operators and captains to argue that they know how to steer their ships so that they don't puncture a hull, that a double hull is an unnecessary expense. As long as there were no accidents it would be hard to argue against that reasoning. Then when something like the happens there's a reaction to that failure, thinking that if there was a double hull the ship wouldn't have sunk.   There's going to be a lot of pressure to operate cruise ships differently. They're not going to be going close to land as that one did. There are probably also going to be calls for design changes. I understand it took them quite awhile to pump the fuel out of the ship, so making that easier will be an area they'll focus on. The also listed so badly they couldn't get the lifeboats down on one side. That's something that will be looked at.   is analogous to the 's sinking. In the case of the , ships were moving through the North Atlantic at a regular rate at that time, and the fact that they almost never hit icebergs was interpreted as: "We don't have to hit icebergs, we know how to avoid them." This raises the level of confidence almost to overconfidence that nothing's going to happen because nothing has happened, which is not logical, of course.   This should have been a warning. There's so much written about the , and it's hard to separate what's fact and what's fiction. My understanding is that the way the was designed, the emphasis was placed on surviving a head-on collision. The idea of a side grazing was apparently not anticipated, although it's hard for me to imagine why.   Part of a design is to specify the materials. They were building the and its sister ship the at the same time, so they needed a lot of rivets. It turned out those who supplied the rivets were overwhelmed by the shipbuilder's demands. This led White Star to look for a broader range of providers, so the quality control wasn't as good as it would have been if they were dealing with a single supplier. Some of the rivets in the ship were steel, like the hull plates were, but some of the rivets were made of iron, and not the best iron. There were rivets that were put into the ship that were not sound. Getting the right materials continues to be an issue for large building projects even today.   It depends on whether you look at the ship as a structure made of steel and rivets and so forth or if you look at the ship as part of a larger system that transports people overseas over long distances through waters where there are icebergs. Not only does a structure need to be robust, it also needs to be robust under operational conditions where people make mistakes and things go wrong. The systems approach was very important to understanding what happened to the .  For a more recent example, look at the space shuttle program. Before the , there were 24 successful space shuttle flights, although quite a few of them actually had leaks in the O-ring, which turned out to be the weak link in the design and fatal for the . But it was rationalized away in the sense that, true there were leaks, but the shuttle missions were completed anyway. The system--which includes both the equipment and the people in charge of operating that equipment--tolerated those risks, and for awhile we were able to bring the astronauts home safely. Because no one can foresee all of the conditions that a design will be subjected to, managers, whether it's a ship's captain or NASA engineer, need to know and respect the limitations of their equipment. Larry Greenemeier is the associate editor of technology for , covering a variety of tech-related topics, including biotech, computers, military tech, nanotech and robots. Credit: Nick Higgins Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.