Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue CT scans may soon link human remains to missing persons You can tell a lot from a skull if you know what you're doing: an expert can suggest a skull's sex, age and ancestry just by looking at it. But such a subjective assessment would not hold water in a court of law, where it is essential to know how likely a skull belongs to a particular missing person. For that, you need numerical probabilities. When an anthropologist wants to know if, say, a skull comes from a female in her 30s of Cuban descent, it would help to have a big digital database of skulls to query and analyze. Researchers at North Carolina State University have taken a few small steps toward such a tool. In 2009 forensic anthropologist Ann Ross developed software called 3D-ID that compares three-dimensional coordinates on a skull to a database of physical characteristics, such as the shape of the forehead. With numbers on its side, 3D-ID has consistently outperformed human experts and provides greater specificity. A skull's ancestry, for example, can be narrowed down from "Hispanic" to "Guatemalan." Now Ross's goal is to make the database even more accurate. For that, she needs more skulls, and she thinks she has found the perfect source: computed tomography (CT) scans. Ross found that the technique provides the necessary measurements after scanning 48 skulls, results reported in the in January. In the future, living persons already undergoing CT scans for medical reasons could agree to add their scans to the database. "We have a huge crisis in the U.S. of unidentified individuals, and sometimes we just have the skull," Ross says. In fact, up to 40,000 unidentified human remains exist in the U.S., and 3D-ID has already been used to help track down a handful of them. An expanded database with CT data could make a tremendous difference in tackling others. This article was originally published with the title "The Face behind the Skull" in Scientific American  310, 6, 15 (June 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0614-15 June 1, 2014  --  THE EDITORS Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.