Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A mix of silkworms' proteins acts as a scaffold for 3-D-printed tissues and organs Many research groups are testing "ink" made from silk proteins to print human tissues, implants and perhaps even organs. The process is a less costly alternative to conventional 3-D printing with collagen, a key protein in the body's natural scaffolding. Researchers in Assam, a state in India, are investigating using local silkworm species for the task--they recently submitted a patent for bioinks using a combination of proteins extracted from local species and , as well as the commonly used . The scientists have woven them into synthetic structures ranging from blood vessels to liver lobes; in a paper published in September in , they described mimicking the cartilage of an entire ear. Silk is a natural polymer, a substance with long, repeating molecular chains. It is mechanically strong and completely biodegradable, well suited for applications in tissue engineering. To use it, researchers draw liquid silk from the silkworm's glands or dissolve silk fibers in solvents. They carefully mix the gelatinous liquid with a patient's stem cells, then build structures layer by layer with a 3-D printer. After implantation, the cells grow and replace the silken scaffold, which eventually degenerates into amino acids. Extracting and purifying collagen from animal remains, a common medical source, is complex and expensive. "Compared with collagen, silks have an immense advantage in terms of supply and processing. Local sourcing is also a clear plus in their use in India," says David Kaplan, who heads the department of biomedical engineering at Tufts University and is not involved in the new research. Silk from domesticated silkworms has been used widely in bioprinting, but Biman B. Mandal's laboratory at the Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati in Assam is among the first to incorporate wild silks. These silks are ideal candidates for bioinks because they can be combined to build strong and resilient scaffolds, says Mandal, the lab's principal investigator. "This is important, for example, when making bone tissue," he adds. Researchers commonly use chemicals to cross-link silk polymer chains, which helps to maintain a 3-D structure, but Mandal's group found a blend of silks and gelatin that works without many of those chemicals. Also, the wild silk has spots that cells naturally attach to, he says: "For other silks, they have to be decorated with chemicals that promote adherence. This can be complicated, expensive and potentially toxic." Kaplan agrees, adding that these binding spots allow cells to adhere rapidly to the silk matrix. Mandal and his collaborators have already created prototype structures, including bone and soft tissues such as those of the heart and liver. Reconstructing a human knee meniscus and the complex tissue at the ends of a bone will be next. This article was originally published with the title "Silky Tissue" in Scientific American  321, 6, 20 (December 2019) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1219-20a 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.