Read Our Latest Issue "The audible noise emitted from high-voltage lines is caused by the discharge
of energy that occurs when the electrical field strength on the conductor surface
is greater than the 'breakdown strength' (the field intensity necessary to start
a flow of electric current) of the air surrounding the conductor. This discharge
is also responsible for radio noise, a visible glow of light near the conductor,
an energy loss known as corona loss and other phenomena associated with
high-voltage lines. "The degree or intensity of the corona discharge and the resulting audible
noise are affected by the condition of the air--that is, by humidity, air
density, wind and water in the form of rain, drizzle and fog. Water increases the
conductivity of the air and so increases the intensity of the discharge. Also,
irregularities on the conductor surface, such as nicks or sharp points and
airborne contaminants, can increase the corona activity. Aging or weathering of
the conductor surface generally reduces the significance of these factors. "The higher voltages at which modern transmission lines operate have increased
the noise problem to the point to which they have become a concern to the power
industry. Consequently, these lines are now designed, constructed and maintained
so that during dry conditions they will operate below the corona-inception
voltage, meaning that the line will generate a minimum of corona-related noise.
In foul weather conditions, however, corona discharges can be produced by water
droplets, fog and snow." 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.