Read Our Latest Issue World-changing technologies that are poised to rattle the status quo One day soon an emerging technology highlighted in this report will allow you to virtually teleport to a distant site and actually feel the handshakes and hugs of fellow cyber travelers. Also close to becoming commonplace: humanoid (and animaloid) robots designed to socialize with people; a system for pinpointing the source of a food-poisoning outbreak in just seconds; minuscule lenses that will pave the way for diminutive cameras and other devices; strong, biodegradable plastics that can be fashioned from otherwise useless plant wastes; DNA-based data storage systems that will reliably stow ginormous amounts of information; and more. An international Steering Group of engaged in an intense process to identify this year's "Top 10 Emerging Technologies." After soliciting nominations from additional experts around the globe, the Steering Group evaluated dozens of proposals according to a number of criteria: Do the suggested technologies have the potential to provide major benefits to societies and economies? Could they alter established ways of doing things? Are they still in early stages of development but attracting a lot of interest from research labs, companies or investors? Are they likely to make significant inroads in the next several years? The group sought added information where needed and honed the list in the course of four virtual meetings. We hope you enjoy the result, and we welcome your responses. Read the . Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins Bernard S. Meyerson, Steering Group vice chair, is chief innovation officer emeritus at IBM. He is a member of the U.S. National Academy of Engineering and a recipient of numerous awards for work spanning physics, engineering and business. He was the 2014-2016 chair of the World Economic Forum's Meta-Council on Emerging Technologies and the 2016-2018 chair of the Forum's Global Future Council on Advanced Materials. He remains engaged with several WEF efforts, such as "The Future of US Manufacturing" and "Innovation with a Purpose: Strengthening Food Systems through Technology." Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.