Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue He has protected more U.S land and water than any of his predecessors President Barack Obama has called conservation "a cornerstone of my presidency"--and the numbers back him up. He has protected more American land and water than any of his predecessors, in part thanks to the Antiquities Act passed by President Theodore Roosevelt in 1906. The act gives the executive branch the relatively unrestrained power to protect land by proclamation, without having to go through Congress. The Obama administration has also overseen the removal of more recovering animals and plants from the endangered species list than all previous administrations combined. "We believe the president is going to leave a significant conservation legacy through his leadership," says Dan Chu, director of the Sierra Club's Our Wild America campaign. Land federally protected by Theodore Roosevelt Land federally protected by Barack Obama Marine ecosystems federally protected by Barack Obama New properties added to the National Park System under Obama Endangered species delisted during Obama's time in office This article was originally published with the title "Obama's Conservation Legacy" in Scientific American  315, 6, 19 (December 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1216-19 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.