Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue  Still confused by Stephen Hawking's recent remarks on black holes? Read here, and find an introduction to the information paradox . Investigate the possible link between cholesterol and breast cancer in  and . See what the has to say about 'sAmerican roots, a chance discovery made at the Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History's . The astronaut-snapped image of icy Lake Sharpe comes courtesy of . Read the original version of this story on 's Observations . Find out more about the that requires companies to report their use of conflict minerals. Learn more about the JILA strontium atomic clock in . ( is part of Nature Publishing Group.) Research showing that sloths may offer novel ways to treat human diseases cites research that appeared in . Read an extended version of our story on , and find the original . Go to to learn more about the benefits of no-till farming for birds. For technical details on the hybrid solar device out of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, read the researcher's paper in . Find out more about and the . Research on one-way acoustic transmission made the cover of the January 31 . The full paper on "nudges" to reduce antibiotic overuse appeared in . New research about a protein's involvement in cavefish eye loss was published in . This article was originally published with the title "April Advances: Additional Resources" in Scientific American  310, 4,  (April 2014) April 1, 2014  --  Michael Moyer April 1, 2014  --  Melinda Wenner Moyer April 1, 2014  --  Rachel Nuwer April 1, 2014  --  Annie Sneed April 1, 2014  --  Larry Greenemeier April 1, 2014  --  Rachel Nuwer Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.