Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A massive avian-tracking program reveals how songbirds survive winter They say that the early bird catches the worm. The truth, of course, is a bit more complicated. Garden songbirds have one task during the winter, which is to survive long enough to breed during the spring and summer. Small birds can lose up to 10 percent of their body weight in a single night, so they need to eat well every day. But if they pack on too much weight, they might slow down, leaving them vulnerable to predators such as the sparrow hawk. Researchers at the University of Oxford attached microchips to more than 2,000 songbirds to track the birds' movements. By outfitting an array of feeding stations with microchip detectors and moving some of the feeders every day, the researchers were able to infer how the birds found their meals. Every morning the birds leave their nests and scout, assessing the quality and location of each food source without actually dining.* By fasting in the morning, they remain nimble enough to dodge predators during the daylight hours. As the afternoon wears on, armed with knowledge about where to find food, the birds return to eat, the researchers recently reported in . The new experiment represents one of the first attempts to investigate how wild songbirds negotiate the competing challenges of feeding enough without becoming a tasty morsel themselves. "Almost all previous studies are either theoretical models or work done in captivity," says Damien Farine, who led the experiment when he was a graduate student at Oxford. Similar microchipping schemes will allow researchers to explore further questions about disease transmission among birds, as well as their social networks and cognitive abilities, says Ron Ydenberg, director of the Center for Wildlife Ecology at Simon Fraser University in British Columbia. "These kinds of analyses seemed impossibly complex when I was a graduate student 30 years ago," he adds.   This article was originally published with the title "Living Claw to Mouth" in Scientific American  310, 2, 23 (February 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0214-23 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.