Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Spiders can sense and respond to sounds coming from distances more than three meters away even though they lack ears and eardrums When Peter Parker's "spidey sense" starts tingling, it's warning him about danger nearby. Real spiders are known for their ability to detect close-up threats, but a new study suggests that they can also sense sounds that are much farther away. Tiny jumping spiders, which to catch prey and evade predators, were thought to be capable of sensing only the sounds produced nearby, the study authors wrote. But the researchers found that the could also sense and respond to sounds coming from distances more than 9.8 feet (3 meters) away--no small feat for a creature that measures just 0.04 to 0.98 inches (1 to 25 millimeters) and lacks ears and eardrums. [ ] "Hearing in spiders is really different from the way that our own ears work," study lead author Paul Shamble, a biologist who conducted jumping-spider research with colleagues at Cornell University but is now at Harvard University, told Live Science. "Instead of eardrums that respond to pressure, spiders have these extraordinarily sensitive hairs that respond to the actual movement of air particles around them," Shamble told Live Science. "Though they differ in size and number, these specialized 'hearing' hairs are found across virtually ." Shamble and his colleagues discovered by chance that this "hearing" was even more sensitive than anyone suspected. The researchers wired a with electrodes--a technique that Shamble helped to pioneer at Cornell in 2014--to record how the spiders processed visual signals. And then something unusual occurred. Shamble recalled in a statement that the researchers had set up a speaker so they could hear when the spider's neurons fired, which produced a distinctive popping sound. As one of the scientists moved away from the table, his chair squeaked--and they heard the sound of the spider's neuron firing. "He did it again, and the neuron fired again," Shamble said. This was surprising, Shamble explained, because in behavioral experiments with other jumping spiders, once objects moved about 12 inches (30 centimeters) away, the spiders seemed to stop responding to them. [ ] "Also, until now, most biologists relied on a set of simplifying assumptions to understand how creatures like this could ," Shamble added. "Those assumptions suggested that if you were more than about a meter [3 feet] away from the sound source, the signal would be so small that it would be undetectable. Since this matched the behavior that people had observed, this seemed to work." However, a jumping spider in a Cornell laboratory was proving those assumptions wrong. Shamble clapped his hands near the spider. The neuron fired. And it kept firing in response to his clapping, even after he had moved outside the room, to a distance of 16 feet (5 m) from the spider. The researchers conducted further tests and found that on jumping spiders' forelegs triggered the neurons that responded to sounds, suggesting that these hairs were picking up audio signals even over distances of several meters. "This brings up all kinds of new ideas and questions--from what might they be using this hearing for, to the neurobiology of how they process all this information," Shamble said. "Just imagine if you assumed that cats could not hear, and then one day you found out that they could--it would change everything about how you thought about their lives!" As to what comes next--you could say that the scientists who study these spiders will be all ears. The findings were published online Oct. 13 in the journal . 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.