Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Sequences of nearly 200 beer-making strains reveal yeast in action Geneticists have traced the history of beer's most important ingredient: yeast. By sequencing the genomes of nearly 200 modern strains of brewer's yeast, the research reveals how, over hundreds of years, humans transformed the wild fungus into a variety of strains tuned for particular tipples. Yeast gives beer its booze and bubbles by fermenting sugar into alcohol and carbon dioxide, but it also makes hundreds of chemicals that impart flavours such as bananas and cloves to a drink. Brewing yeasts differ in their production of these metabolites and in other traits such as their tolerance to alcohol. To understand the basis for these differences, a team led by geneticist Kevin Verstrepen at the University of Leuven and the Flanders Institute of Biotechnology in Belgium, sequenced the genomes of 157 strains used to make ale and other fermented products, including wine, sake and bread . Their work is detailed in an 8 September paper. An evolutionary tree of the yeast strains revealed distinct families of yeast used for making wine, bread and sake, and two distantly related groups of ale yeast, including strains from Belgium, Germany, Britain and the United States. "This is a genomic encyclopaedia of ale yeasts that will serve researchers for years to come," says Chris Hittinger, an evolutionary geneticist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Verstrepen's team, meanwhile, is . Beer is one of civilization's oldest intoxicants. A 5,000-year-old Sumerian tablet depicts an ancient keg party, while similarly aged pots from western Iran and northern China hold residues of beer ingredients, including barley and fermentation by-products. Given that history, Verstrepen expected the ancestors of modern brewing yeasts to date back thousands of years. Instead, his team estimates that humans domesticated beer yeasts starting in the late sixteenth and early seventeenth century. This, he says, coincides with a period in Europe when beer-making moved from homes to pubs and monasteries. He suspects that early professional brewers took yeast with them when they moved around Europe and even to the New World: US beer strains, for instance, are closely related to British strains. Brewers did not isolate the first yeast strains until much later, in the late nineteenth century--but they may have inadvertently shaped the genomes of yeast by brewing each new batch of beer on top of the dregs of the last one, Verstrepen proposes. Through this practice, brewers might have slowly selected yeast strains that perform well and produce desirable flavours. An independent team led by Jose Paulo Sampaio, an evolutionary geneticist at the New University of Lisbon, came to many of the same conclusions as Verstrepen's team about how humans shaped beer yeast, after sequencing 28 beer yeast strains. That study will appear next month in . Hittinger says that he's not sure about the finding that beer yeast was domesticated in the 1600s. Those dates are based on a DNA mutation rate for yeast that is 50 times faster than those estimated by other studies; a slower mutation rate would mean that beer domestication occurred much earlier than the study suggests. But Verstrepen stands by the calculation--yeast mutates rapidly when living in alcohol, he notes. Although all the industrial yeasts bore signs of human influence, the beer yeast genomes were the most dramatically altered. Beer-making strains carry variations and duplications in genes involved in consuming maltose and maltotriose, the main sugars in beer. Most of the beer yeasts had variations that limit production of 4-vinyl guaiacol (4-VG), which imbues clove and smoke flavours that many beer drinkers loathe. One exception was yeast used in German wheat beers called Hefeweizens, which typically smell of cloves. The genomes of these strains contain stretches of DNA--including the genes that make 4-VG--that seem to originate from wine yeast. Verstrepen thinks that these strains emerged when an ale strain hybridized with a wine-making yeast, regaining the capacity to make the clove-smelling chemical. The newly available genomes may also shake up beer-making. Verstrepen's lab is breeding different yeast strains and selecting hybrids with a desired set of gene variants. For the paper, they made a hybrid strain with high alcohol tolerance that does not produce 4-VG. His lab has brewed with genetically modified yeast to make a beer with very high levels of a banana-tasting chemical, but he only distributes yeast created through conventional breeding to breweries. Loren Miraglia, a home brewer in San Diego, California, who provided some of the sequenced strains in the paper, has thought of modifying beer yeasts with the gene-editing tools he uses in his job at a genomics institute. However, he doubts that consumers are ready for CRISPR beer. Hittinger imagines beer bottles carrying information about traits such as 4-VG production, which is determined by variations in genes called and . "It's one of the major flavours that causes me not to like certain beers," he says. "I would check the and status of a beer before I ordered it." Ewen Callaway trabaja para la revista . March 25, 2014  --  Kalliopi Monoyios May 23, 2016  --  Cynthia Graber April 25, 2014  --  Andy Wales and Nature Climate Change Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.