Read Our Latest Issue CO2 emissions rise as natural sinks slow, but how can scientists precisely track this greenhouse gas, especially in advance of a potential global treaty to reduce its emissions? The planet soaks up excess carbon dioxide via oceans, plants and soils, among other natural systems, locking away some of the . In fact, every year these natural "sinks" absorb a larger and larger tonnage of emissions--but thanks to the increasing amount of CO and other greenhouse gases dumped in the atmosphere by human activity, the proportion that is reabsorbed is beginning to dwindle, according to new studies.  As efforts get underway to craft a global treaty that begins to reduce man-made greenhouse gas emissions, precise and accurate measurements of the emanations, along with their sources and sinks are increasingly important. Novel technologies as well as new scientific efforts are contributing to that project--although the recent caused a setback.  First and foremost, , according to a new report from the (GCP) published online by on November 17. ( is part of the Nature Publishing Group.) From 2000 to 2008, such discharges jumped by 29 percent and, in spite of the onset of the Great Recession, still managed to rise 2 percent in 2008 alone (although they are expected to fall back to 2007 levels this year), according to oceanographer Corinne Le Quere of the University of East Anglia in England. In fact, global emissions from fossil-fuel burning and deforestation are now roughly 37 billion metric tons of CO per year--or 41 percent higher than in 1990.  Le Quere and her colleagues' research also hints that the portion of CO remaining in the atmosphere may be on the rise, as well--creeping from around 40 percent in 1959 to roughly 45 percent in 2008. That translates to roughly 14 billion metric tons of CO a year, or a 1.8-part-per-million increase in atmospheric concentration annually.  Part of the reason for that rise may be explained by a slowing in the amount of CO absorbed by the world's oceans, particularly the Southern Ocean surrounding Antarctica, whose frigid waters absorbed 40 percent of the nearly nine billion metric tons of CO sequestered by the seas last year. Reconstructing the , oceanographer Samar Khatiwala of Columbia University's Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory and his colleagues estimate that the proportion of fossil-fuel emissions absorbed by the sea has declined 5 percent already in the first years of the 21st century, according to a new paper published November 19 in .  This might indicate that the natural ocean sink--whose carbon dioxide uptake increased in the 1950s--is unable to cope with increasing greenhouse discharges produced by human activity. "The more carbon dioxide you put in, the more acidic the ocean becomes, reducing its ability to hold CO ," Khatiwala said in a prepared statement. --a measure of acidity--has dropped to 8.1 from roughly 8.2 in the 19th century.  That is balanced, in some part, by an apparent rise of roughly four billion metric tons of CO absorbed by land-based sinks, possibly due to CO being used by growing plants. Then again, the researchers' estimate for is suspect, given that it is based on what has not been absorbed by the oceans or remains in the atmosphere.  This kind of estimate is endemic to climate research and is perhaps best exemplified by the , which are often based on emissions factors--mathematical formulas for the amount of CO produced by burning a particular type of coal, for example. Simply multiplying consumption figures for such coal by these factors is the primary way the U.S. and other nations estimate the greenhouse gas load they contribute to the problem.  "Those emission estimates are not very accurate compared to high-calibration devices," says Michael Woelk, CEO of Picarro, a California-based manufacturer of such a device for measuring CO emissions. "No country today is using scientific instruments to monitor and calibrate the effect of policy," not even the European Union, which has an for greenhouse gases.  The U.S. uses similar technology to precisely monitor emissions of acid rain-causing sulfur dioxide or smog-forming nitrogen oxides as part of its trading programs for those pollutants. And the World Meteorological Organization has opted to employ Picarro's "cavity ring-down spectroscopy" technology--a computerlike device that measures isotopes to determine both amount and source, whether man-made or natural, of greenhouse gases--to .  The devices depend on the fact that carbon dioxide generated from fossil-fuel consumption has less of the isotope known as carbon 13 than other forms of the gas, thanks to plants preferentially absorbing the lighter version, known as carbon 12. By measuring this ratio, scientists might be able to determine more accurately the proportion of human contribution to climate-warming gases.  But a lot of variability in such isotopes remains; for example, the ratio of these isotopes can vary significantly in natural gas alone, potentially throwing such measurements into dispute. And a paper in the November 7 issue of from earth scientist Wolfgang Knorr of the University of Bristol in England argues that the ocean's at all in the last 150 years, making it possible that natural systems could compensate for human emissions.  Ultimately, what will matter most is how much the oceans and other natural sinks can buffer the human contribution from fossil-fuel burning. If greenhouse gas emissions continue on their current trajectory, global average temperatures could be 6 degrees Celsius warmer by the end of the century, Le Quere says.  As oceanographer Richard Feely of the , a contributor to the GCP, noted: "We're concerned that if the natural sinks can't keep pace with the increased CO emissions, then the physical and biological impacts of global warming will accelerate over the next century." David Biello is a contributing editor at . Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.