Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world The earliest dinosaurs laid soft-shelled eggs, paleontologists say. A new chemical analysis of a more than 200-million-year-old fossilized egg from Patagonia--and a clutch of more recent eggs from Mongolia, found in the Gobi Desert--revealed a thin film matching the characteristics of modern soft-shelled eggs. Archaeologists found that 20 deep shafts, previously thought to be natural sinkholes and ponds, were dug by Neolithic humans. The shafts form a circle two kilometers in diameter, with the Durrington Walls monument at its center, just three kilometers from Stonehenge. In a new paper, researchers documented the largest lightning bolt ever recorded. The "mega-flash," which extended for more than 700 kilometers in southern Brazil in 2018, was detected by a new advanced weather satellite in geostationary orbit. Researchers sequenced DNA samples from the Dead Sea Scrolls, identifying fragments made from sheep skin and others made from cow hide. The technique could help match fragments together and unravel the artifacts' geographic origins. Scientists identified an elusive nose-horned dragon lizard in the forests of North Sumatra. Despite appearing in the mythology of the indigenous Bataks, the visually striking species had been spotted by scientists only once before--almost 130 years ago. Submarine drones uncovered an extensive system of underwater "rivers" of dense, salty water along Australia's continental shelf. These flows carry organic matter from the coast into the deep ocean, and their volume varies seasonally, peaking in winter. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  323, 3, 19 (September 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0920-19 was a 2020 AAAS Mass Media Fellow at . Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.