Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue In America's past, efforts by disadvantaged citizens to secure greater political influence have been met with violent repression The 2016 American presidential campaign has renewed concerns about the specter of violence in American electoral politics. The campaign has been marked by tense-- --altercations between supporters and critics of Republican nominee Donald Trump. Trump encouraged his supporters to out of protesters, and even suggested he would of followers who assaulted his critics. By to accepting the results of the election, he has confirmed the about the integrity of American elections. Thereby, he has increased the risk of resistance by hard-core Trumpists. It would be comforting to conclude that the menace of violence surrounding the 2016 presidential election is unique. But my research on the history of voting rights in the United States suggests that this is far from the case. Indeed, the threat and execution of violence around elections has a long, sad history in American politics. Somewhat like the 2016 election--which has revolved around issues of race and immigration--efforts by disadvantaged (and often nonwhite) citizens to secure greater political influence have been met with violent repression by those already enjoying power (usually more affluent whites) throughout American history. Violent conflict surrounding elections goes all the way back to the beginning of American history. The Founding Era--often portrayed as a period dominated by outstanding, level-headed statesmen who set the United States on a course toward inevitable greatness--was actually a chaotic period. Political violence was in that period. And, occasionally, a reality. In 1804, Aaron Burr, vice president and , killed Alexander Hamilton, George Washington's former secretary of the treasury, in a duel. Doubting Burr's judgment and patriotism, Hamilton had Burr the governorship of New York. Burr was  to deny him the political success he craved. The period between the 1820s and the onset of the Civil War was marked by a substantial increase in ethnic and religious diversity. This period was also notable for an increase in violent conflict surrounding politics and elections. In a precursor of today's politics, these clashes stemmed from among native white Protestants about the consequences of Irish and German Catholic immigration for American identity and social harmony. Of particular note was the rise of the virulently nativist, anti-Catholic "American Party" (better known as the ) in the 1850s. For some Know-Nothings, violence against recent immigrants was an acceptable means to preserve the rights of native whites. The Know-Nothings were hardly a fringe movement: By 1854, they , as well as the mayors of several major cities. The rise of the Know-Nothings triggered serious conflicts between native white Protestants and those who had recently immigrated. In a particularly horrifying 1855 event known as 22 people--mostly recent German and Irish immigrants--were killed, and many more were injured, in an Election Day riot in Louisville, Kentucky. In a disturbing precedent given Trump's request that his supporters monitor polls in an immediate precursor of the riot was an to prevent eligible immigrant voters from casting ballots. It also bears remembering that the Civil War was sparked by the refusal by southern states to accept the results of the 1860 election. That unusual contest, which had featured four major presidential candidates, had been won by Republican standard-bearer Abraham Lincoln despite the fact that he secured only . Although Lincoln the immediate emancipation of African-American slaves, southern leaders believed he intended to destroy the southern slave system. They sought to exit the Union in order to prevent that from happening. When Lincoln refused to accept southern secession, the result was the Civil War--still the in terms of total casualties. But violence directly linked to elections arguably reached a fever pitch in the decades following the North's victory in the Civil War. The national Republican Party's attempts to enfranchise African-Americans and strengthen Republican Party organizations in southern states were contested strenuously--and often violently--by southern whites. In the 1870s, 1880s and 1890s, armed groups of newly enfranchised African-Americans and their white Republican supporters against white supremacist paramilitary organizations in states throughout the South. In one of the worst single episodes of violence-- --a group of white vigilantes killed somewhere between . African-American Republicans had occupied the Grant Parish, Louisiana courthouse in order to preserve the results of the 1872 gubernatorial election, which had elevated a Republican to the governorship. Three whites were also slain in the battle, which had featured the use of trenches and cannon. The threat--and repeated --of violence remained important features of efforts by white supremacists to suppress African-American (and Latino) registration and voting all the way up until enactment of the , which strengthened federal voting rights protections and authorized federal monitoring of election rules in states with records of racial discrimination in voting. Indeed, the for enactment of the Voting Rights Act was widespread public outrage following the nationwide broadcast of images of the brutal police suppression of a peaceful voting rights march in Selma, Alabama. And the subsequent to protect the rights of non-English-speaking Americans was shaped in no small part by reports of the of prospective Latino voters, especially in southwestern states. Just a few years after enactment of the Voting Rights Act, the 1968 Democratic National Convention was famously marred by the by the Chicago police. Demonstrators explicitly portrayed American involvement in Vietnam as the of American imperialism and suppression of nonwhite peoples. The clash represented another example of racialized violence surrounding elections. As a general matter, elections in more recent decades have been characterized by greater civility. However, the long history of violence in American elections should caution citizens against undue optimism about the continuation of this recent favorable trend. Trump's incitement of violence and denigration of the integrity of American elections do, in fact, risk the resumption of ugly historic patterns. Jesse Rhodes is an associate professor of political science at the University of Massachusetts Amherst. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.