Read Our Latest Issue The negative impacts of climate change are beginning to appear--and we may soon cross a threshold of significant damage The risk of is getting worse, according to a new study from scientists involved with the (IPCC). Threats--ranging from the destruction of coral reefs to more extreme weather events like hurricanes, droughts and floods--are becoming more likely at the temperature change already underway: as little as 1.8 degree Fahrenheit (1 degree Celsius) of warming in global average temperatures.  "Most people thought that the risks were going to be for certain species and poor people. But all of a sudden the European heat wave of 2003 comes along and kills 50,000, [Hurricane] Katrina comes along and there's a lot of data about the increased intensity of droughts and floods. Plus, the dramatic that nobody can explain certainly has to increase your concern," says of Stanford University, who co-authored the research published this week in the as well as in several IPCC reports. "Everywhere we looked, there was evidence that what was believed to be likely has happened. Nature has been cooperating with [ ] theory unfortunately."  Schneider and his colleagues updated a graph, dubbed the "burning embers," that is designed to map the risks of . The initial version of the graph [ ] drawn in 2001 had the risks of climate change beginning to appear after 3.6 or 5.4 degrees F (2 to 3 degrees C) of warming, but the years since have shown that climate risks kick in with less warming.  According to the new graph, risks to "unique and threatened systems" such as and risks of extreme weather events become likely when temperatures rise by as little as 1.8 degrees F from 1990 levels, which is on course to occur by mid-century given the current concentrations of . In addition, risks of negative consequences such as increased droughts and the complete melting of ice caps in Greenland and Antarctica definitively outweigh any potential positives, such as longer growing seasons in countries such as Canada and Russia.  "We're definitely going to overshoot some of these temperatures where we see these very large vulnerabilities manifest," says of Wesleyan University in Middletown, Conn., another co-author. "We're going to have to learn how to adapt."  Adaptation notwithstanding, Yohe and Schneider say that scientists must also figure out a way to to reverse the heating trend to prevent further damage.  Several bills pending in Congress would set a so-called cap-and-trade policy under which an overall limit on pollution would be set--and companies with low output could sell their allowances to those that fail to cut emissions as long as the total stays within the total pollution cap. Any such federal policy would put a price on carbon dioxide pollution, which is currently free to vent into the atmosphere, Yohe note. He, however, favors  a so-called carbon tax that would set a fixed price for such climate-changing pollution rather than the . "It's a predictable price, not a thing that bounces around."  But even with such policies in place--not only in the U.S. but across the globe--climate change is a foregone conclusion; global average temperatures have already risen by at least 1.1 degrees Fahrenheit (0.6 degree C) and further warming of at least 0.7 degree F (0.4 degree C) is virtually certain, according to the IPCC. And a host of studies, including a recent one from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, have shown that even a few years ago. The question is: Will it be catastrophic or not? "We've dawdled, and if we dawdle more it will get even worse," Schneider says. "It's time to move." David Biello is a contributing editor at . November 26, 2007  --  David Biello November 14, 2008  --  David Biello April 9, 2007  --  David Biello November 17, 2008  --  David Biello January 14, 2009  --  David Biello May 25, 2007  --  David Biello Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.