Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Understanding the workings of a key protein may presage treatments With the elderly segment of populations ballooning worldwide, the race to defeat that grim corollary of aging, Alzheimer's disease, is becoming all the more urgent. This year saw several encouraging advances on that front. In what reviewers described as a "technological tour de force," and of the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis traced production of a destructive Alzheimer's protein, known as amyloid-beta ( ), to the junctions between neurons called synapses. They then directly linked high synaptic activity to amyloid-beta increases. One key to counteracting the devastating effects experienced by patients is detecting the disease early, and another feat by Holtzman, with , also at the Washington University School of Medicine, should make that possible. They have devised a test that measures the manufacture and disposal of amyloid-beta in the brain. Their technique might eventually serve as a basis for detecting the disease early and measuring drug effects on already diagnosed patients. One of those treatments might someday be based on a synthetic protein fragment that of Louisiana State University has developed to disrupt formation of the plaques believed to provoke massive brain cell death in Alzheimer's patients. The plaques are aggregations of fibers that form when individual amyloid-beta peptides begin sticking together abnormally. Hammer tweaked building blocks of amyloid-beta, synthesizing a nonsticky version of the amino acids that bind the proteins. Adding the engineered fragments to a test tube of normal amyloid-beta blocked the proteins' ability to form fibers, even after four months' exposure. If it does the same in human brains, tens of millions of Alzheimer's sufferers might finally be liberated from a deadly burden of poisonous plaque. This article was originally published with the title "Unlocking Alzheimer's" in Scientific American  295, 6, 53 (December 2006) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1206-53 Christine Soares is based in New York City. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.