Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Room-sized "atom waves" could help probe the quantum realm Researchers are preparing to scrutinize nature on tiny scales by stretching supercooled atoms into room-length waves as they drop them down a 100-meter vacuum tube. The experiment will seek ripples in the bizarre quantum realm: potential fingerprints of missing dark matter and, in future iterations, new frequencies of gravitational waves. Collaborators have raised $12.3 million to turn an Illinois mine shaft into the world's largest atom interferometer--the Matter-wave Atomic Gradiometer Interferometric Sensor, or MAGIS-100. The instrument will manipulate falling atoms with lasers. A laser pulse can tickle a single atom in such a way that, because of its quantum properties, it both absorbs and does not absorb the laser's energy. In terms of quantum mechanics, everything from a photon to a baseball has wavelike qualities--although they are imperceptible for large objects. When the MAGIS laser excites an atom, its wavelike nature lets it stretch out in space, the laser-absorbing part racing ahead. After these atom waves, which measure several meters long, fall down the shaft, a second laser pulse will reunite the excited part of each wave with its slower counterpart. Researchers will then precisely determine the acceleration of the falling atom by measuring interference between the two parts of the wave. By simultaneously dropping a million such atom waves along the shaft's upper and lower sections, physicists will check more interference patterns--those between the top and bottom clouds of atoms--for minuscule contradictions to the known laws of physics. "The longer you watch [the atoms] fall, the more accurately you can measure them," says Stanford University physicist Jason Hogan, who has developed a 10-meter prototype. Dark matter, which scientists suspect makes up much of the cosmos but which cannot be detected by conventional means, could cause noticeable effects in this experiment. Dark matter has many possible candidates, but ultralight particles--which Rob Plunkett, principal investigator at Fermilab, where MAGIS-100 will reside, calls "a whole unexplored continent"--are gaining prominence. If these phantasms meddle with MAGIS-100's atom waves, nudging them or tweaking fundamental constants, researchers just might catch the lightweights in the act. And if dark matter remains dark to MAGIS-100, the apparatus doubles as a pathfinding gravitational-wave detector. It probably will not sense the subtle ripples in spacetime itself, but its technologies may enable a future kilometer-long "MAGIS-1000," which would be more sensitive to both gravitational waves and novel particles. This article was originally published with the title "Giant Atoms" in Scientific American  322, 2, 14-17 (February 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0220-14 Charlie Wood is a journalist covering discoveries in the physical sciences both on and off the planet. His writing has appeared in , , and elsewhere. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.