Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Since I last sat down to write From the Editor a few short weeks ago, the toll of the coronavirus pandemic has been staggering: at press time, more than 180,000 deaths globally and countless lives upended. Most of the planet is still on lockdown. At times it seems unreal, although it shouldn't. Many public health experts warned for a long time that something like this would happen without our taking precautionary measures. The crisis reminds us that knowledge matters and throws into stark relief the ways that science works slowly and assiduously, over decades of painstaking research in epidemiology and virology, as well as urgently and frenetically, in the midst of tragedy and disaster, to help the world prepare for and respond to epidemics. That work is by no means perfect or complete, but it is our only hope to stop the suffering. This month we lead with a special report that traces years of study of coronaviruses to current efforts in biomedicine to halt the pandemic. Beijing-based science writer Jane Qiu profiles the . Reporters Michael Waldholz and Charles Schmidt cover the race for and . And journalists Jillian Mock and Lydia Denworth write about the lasting and . Other columns and departments in the issue focus on the pandemic as well. behind some of the world's worst outbreaks. Graphic Science presents a stunning data . There's more, and all of our coronavirus coverage is freely available online at . If you need relief from the plague beat (and we all do), turn to the back half of the features section for a series of articles that will carry you away to a land of awe and wonder. Astronomer Meredith A. MacGregor describes how Chile's ALMA telescope has . Paleontologist John A. Long and evolutionary biologist Richard Cloutier explain how the discovery of an extraordinary 375-million-year-old fossil overturned the conventional wisdom about . And neuroscientist Christof Koch and how researchers might uncover what is happening in the mind when we see that bright light. I want to thank the team for its hard work on this issue--it's not easy to cover such an epic and rapidly evolving situation in a monthly print magazine. I also want to thank all the health care workers, researchers and experts who took the time to share their stories. It's been a painful month, and we owe a debt to everyone trying to bring this pandemic to an end. This article was originally published with the title "Covering Coronavirus" in Scientific American  322, 6, 4 (June 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0620-4 Curtis Brainard is acting editor in chief of . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.