Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Books and recommendations from Daniel Tammet Little, Brown, 2013 (&dollar;26) Tammet is famous for his unusual brain: he possesses the extraordinary number skills of an autistic savant with very few of the intellectual limitations associated with autism. Because of his gifts, neuroscientists have spent time with him to gain deeper insight into the autistic mind. He is also a best-selling author, and his new book is a collection of beautifully wrought essays about numbers, which he experiences as shapes, colors and textures. Here Tammet ruminates on the number 9 (he hails from a nine-sibling family outside London), the probability of finding life in outer space and, in one of the book's highlights, describes how it felt to recite by memory the digits of pi to the 22,514th decimal place, a process that took more than five hours. He writes that he memorized the numbers in much the same way a painter takes in a beautiful landscape: by sifting light particles (or digits in Tammet's case) "by intuitive meaning and personal taste." This article was originally published with the title "Thinking in Numbers" in Scientific American  309, 1, 90 (July 2013) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0713-90c Anna Kuchment is a contributing editor at and a staff science writer at the . Previously a reporter, writer and editor with magazine, she is also author of , which is about bacteriophage viruses and their potential as weapons against antibiotic resistance. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.