Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue As enormous peat bogs dry they are more prone to burn, releasing lots of carbon in a major way. Blazes have raged across the northern stretches of North America, sending smoke streaming down into the Lower 48 and leaving the landscape charred. The multitudes of fires is a glimpse of things to come as the climate warms, but blackened trees are only the most visible concern. The ground beneath them is what has some truly worried, with vast carbon reserves that could contribute to even more warming of the planet if they're sent up in smoke. in late May and set the stage for extreme wildfire conditions. Over the period of June 18-24, the Bureau of Land Management lightning network recorded more than in Alaska, igniting a large swath of fires. and Canada's . , a fire ecologist at the University of Alaska, Fairbanks, said in an email. shows that over that period, large wildfires in Alaska have essentially doubled, including a large increase since 1990. Wildfire season is 40 percent longer than it was in the 1950s, now stretching 35 days longer. Much of that can be tied to rapid warming in the northern reaches of the globe, which has warmed more than twice as fast as the rest of the planet. In the past 60 years, Alaska has warmed about 3degF with similar warming rates in northern Canada. . That makes this start to wildfire season in the boreal forest a punctuation mark on the longer term trend of ever increasing northern wildfires, one that's expected to continue. , a wildland fire expert at the University of Alberta, said. "We need a 15 percent increase in precipitation to account for the warming. Very few climate models suggest there will be an increase in precipitation to compensate for the increase in temperature. The fuels will be drier in the future and it will be easy to start the spread of fire." For all the drama of trees lighting up like matchsticks, it's what lurks below the forest that could be a major wildcard for future warming. Large reserves of peat make up a large portion of the soil, swamps and bogs in the northern reaches of the globe. Flannigan refers to it as "legacy carbon," an accumulation of centuries of plant matter that sequesters vast amounts of carbon from the atmosphere. ). If that happens, it could rapidly warm the climate. , an ecologist at the University of Guelph, said. "They were way too wet and fire played little to no role in these ecosystems. Over time, we've seen that just isn't true." As warming dries out forests and precipitation patterns change, the water table is dropping in once swampy areas. That makes peat susceptible to burning and when it does catch fire, centuries' worth of carbon can burn up in the span of a few hours if fires are intense enough. last summer managed to smolder through the winter and re-emerge this summer. All that is to say the early drama of this year's fire season won't end when the last tree burns. And what lies ahead for this season depends on the rains. if late summer rains don't come this year, we have the potential to far exceed the 2004 fire season," Rupp said. April 8, 2013 Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.