Read Our Latest Issue Isolated in a giant thermal vacuum chamber, NASA's $8.6 billion next-generation observatory is riding out the worst of Hurricane Harvey After unleashing days of torrential rains and devastating floods that swamped Houston and much of southeastern Texas, the former Hurricane Harvey is now threatening NASA's Johnson Space Center (JSC)--and with it some of the space agency's most valuable assets, such as the $8.6 billion James Webb Space Telescope. As the home of the nation's astronaut corps and the control center for the International Space Station, JSC is the heart of NASA's human spaceflight program. It is also the site of one of NASA's largest thermal vacuum chambers, known as "Chamber A," which resides in the center's "Building 32" and since July has harbored the Webb telescope for simulating deep-space conditions. Set to launch as soon as October of next year, Webb is by far the biggest, boldest and most expensive space observatory every built. Some call it NASA's next-generation successor to the Hubble Space Telescope. It boasts cryogenically-cooled instruments and a 6.5-meter segmented primary mirror that promise to deliver revolutionary observations of the universe's first galaxies, and of exoplanets around nearby stars--if, that is, it can emerge unscathed from rains and flooding that the National Weather Service has called As of this writing, there have been no reports of flooding at Building 32 or other critical JSC facilities, and the center possesses several electric generators as backup in the event of a power outage. JSC lies 13 feet above sea level at its lowest point, and 22 feet at its highest--making it a relatively lofty point in the surrounding landscape, much of which is already submerged beneath rising floodwaters. "We are on an island apparently," JSC flight director Royce Renfrew wrote in a series of Sunday morning. "No way out of my area. Abandoned cars all over on the roads." Later that day, another JSC flight director, Zebulon Scoville, that he and other critical employees were "camping out" at their work stations, "standing strong and keeping the lights on." That evening, officials that JSC would be closed Monday to all but "Mission Essential Personnel," who are required to stay on-site for critical tasks like maintaining contact with the space station. But the deluge from Harvey is not yet over. The center could remain closed for days to come as Harvey's moisture-filled clouds continue dumping rain over the region. As of Monday afternoon, that closure was to continue into at least Tuesday according to a on JSC's emergency communications Twitter account, which also noted that the center had so far received 31 inches of precipitation and that local roads were "flooding quickly" in the ongoing downpour. Harvey churned back out to sea Monday morning, picking up moisture from the ocean as it traveled southeast; forecasts now indicate the storm will slowly churn to the northeast, potentially bringing another 15 to 25 inches of rain to southeastern Texas and southwestern Louisiana. Reached for comment, a NASA spokesperson said that "our personnel and hardware are safe and everyone is taking appropriate precautions." Via e-mail, John Mather, Webb's senior project scientist, reiterated that Webb "is safe and so far all the staff are, too. We are very well prepared with people ready to camp in place as needed." Reporting from JSC on , the European Space Agency astronomer Sarah Kendrew gave a more detailed appraisal of the situation, noting that workers were using "mops and buckets" to sop up rainwater near workstations in Building 32, but that none of the leaks were near Chamber A. "The telescope," she wrote, "is totally fine." Lee Billings is a senior editor for space and physics at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.