Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Books and recommendations from by Joel Sartore. National Geographic Focal Point, 2010 For more than 20 years photojournalist Joel Sartore has been making studio portraits of species from around the world. This book brings together 69 captivating images of organisms on the brink, from the leatherback sea turtle to the carnivorous pitcher plant.  by Molly Caldwell Crosby. Berkley Books, 2010 "... Ruth had been described as a healthy and robust girl, but when she returned from work the week before Christmas, she started complaining of a severe pain in the index finger on her right hand. It was acute and came on suddenly that afternoon. "By the time she reached home that evening, the pain had spread up her entire arm. The arm ached for hours, and then the pain disappeared suddenly, leaving her right arm slightly paralyzed. Up to that point, an aching arm and what seemed like joint pain had been her only symptoms. The symptoms had come on quickly, but certainly did not point to anything more disturbing to come. And so it was both startling and frightening when Ruth flew into a sudden rage. "She became irrational and violent, lashing out at her parents. It was as if their daughter had gone insane--immediately and without warning. The family history presented no tendency toward mental illness, and although Ruth's older sister had epilepsy, no epileptic seizure had ever been like this. "With wild eyes, thrashing limbs and clenched teeth, Ruth finally had to be sedated and restrained. Then Ruth fell asleep. Even as she slept her temperature rose to 102. Her parents could only stand back and watch their daughter, strapped to a bed, gasping in rapid breaths of air like an animal. At first the sleep must have been a relief, but as the days and weeks passed, it would become terrifying. "Ruth's eyes had closed just before Christmas, and they had never opened again...."  by Howard Friel. Yale University Press, 2010 by Eliezer J. Sternberg. Prometheus Books, 2010 by Brian Fagan. Bloomsbury Press, 2010 by Maryn McKenna. Free Press, 2010 by Henry Schlesinger. Smithsonian Books, 2010 by Julian Pepperell. University of Chicago Press, 2010 by Sander Bais. MIT Press, 2010 by Lewis M. Cohen. HarperCollins, 2010 by Glyn Williams. University of California Press, 2010  , a new permanent exhibit at the National Museum of Natural History in Washington, D.C., opens March 17.   March 6-September 6, 2010, at the American Museum of Natural History in New York City. This article was originally published with the title "Imperiled Species Sleeping Sickness Human Ancestors" in Scientific American  302, 4, 86 (April 2010) Kate Wong is a senior editor for evolution and ecology at . Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.