Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Recommendations from by Lisa Randall HarperCollins, 2015 (($29.99)) Exotic entities such as dark matter--the invisible material thought to make up about 27 percent of the universe--do not seem to have any direct impact on our lives here on Earth. But physicist Randall pokes a hole in that notion by proposing that a rogue disk of weird dark matter might have been responsible for aiming the comet that scientists suspect hit Earth and killed our planet's dinosaurs 66 million years ago. To examine the plausibility of that scenario, Randall's book traverses many scientific fields, including chemistry, planetary science and cosmology. Guided by her theory about the dinosaurs' demise, the author explores the often unappreciated connections between the tiniest particles right under our noses and the vastest structures that rule the universe. (Randall serves on the magazine's board of advisers.) This article was originally published with the title "Book Review: Dark Matter and the Dinosaurs" in Scientific American  313, 5, 74 (November 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1115-74b Maria is very excited to be working as a AAAS Mass Media Fellow for Scientific American this summer. She's a double major in physics and creative writing, and hopes to pursue a Master's degree in science writing after graduation. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.