Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Emissions of lead particles wax and wane with empires, plagues and revolutions Ice cores from Greenland and the Russian Arctic show an ever changing amount of airborne lead pollution that has wafted northward from Europe, Asia and North America each year. Lead levels tracked monumental events in human history, including Phoenicia's expansion in 1,000 B.C., the Roman Empire's rise, terrible plagues and the industrial revolution. From antiquity to the 1800s, emissions came primarily from smelting silver-bearing lead. For example, the Romans wanted silver, so lead "was released to the atmosphere as waste," says Joe McConnell of the Desert Research Institute in Nevada, who led two studies of the data. Burning coal and smelting for leaded gasoline and paint from the 1940s through the 1970s boosted levels far beyond any in history, until regulations such as the U.S. Clean Air Act cut emissions. The COVID-19 pandemic may not leave much of a mark, because many economies are largely deleaded. This article was originally published with the title "Heavy Metal History" in Scientific American  323, 4, 84 (October 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1020-84 Mark Fischetti is a senior editor at . He covers all aspects of sustainability. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.