Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A host of factors figure into whether someone is female, male or somewhere in between Humans are socially conditioned to view sex and gender as binary attributes. From the moment we are born--or even before--we are definitively labeled "boy" or "girl." Yet science points to a much more ambiguous reality. Determination of biological sex is staggeringly complex, involving not only anatomy but an intricate choreography of genetic and chemical factors that unfolds over time. Intersex individuals--those for whom sexual development follows an atypical trajectory--are characterized by a diverse range of conditions, such as 5-alpha reductase deficiency ( ). A small cross section of these conditions and the pathways they follow is shown here. In an additional layer of complexity, the gender with which a person identifies does not always align with the sex they* are assigned at birth, and they may not be wholly male or female. The more we learn about sex and gender, the more these attributes appear to exist on a spectrum. . This article was originally published with the title "Beyond XX and XY" in Scientific American  317, 3, 50-51 (September 2017) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0917-50 Amanda Montanez is an associate graphics editor at Scientific American. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.