Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue , scientists have known that supernovae, the explosive deaths of giant stars, trigger reactions to forge most of the heavy elements in the universe. Textbook reactions cannot explain the emergence of unusual isotopes of metals such as molybdenum and ruthenium seen in the sun and meteorites. Now researchers report that antineutrinos, ghostly particles with tiny masses, might generate these rare ingredients. In the first seconds after a supernova, a region rich in protons emerges around the dead star's core, which has most likely collapsed into a neutron star. In the April 14 , investigators at the University of Basel in Switzerland and their colleagues suggest antineutrinos streaming in huge numbers from the neutron star could irradiate the protons and turn some into neutrons, which build stable, heavy isotopes. This process could assist in explaining the surprisingly large number of certain heavy elements, such as strontium, seen in otherwise metalpoor stars. This article was originally published with the title "New Way to Create Elements" in Scientific American  295, 1, 32 (July 2006) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0706-32c Charles Q. Choi is a frequent contributor to . His work has also appeared in and among others. In his spare time, he has traveled to all seven continents. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.