Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the December 2009 issue of Although Alexander S. Bradley's article " " provides a fascinating account of the discovery of microbes in a previously unknown kind of hydrothermal vent ecosystem on the seafloor, it does not substantiate his claim that the findings hint that life may have originated in an environment like the Lost City hydrothermal vent. Bradley suggests that Lost City produces "small organic acids such as formate and acetate" and that similar vents might have produced "simple organic acids" and "even more complex fatty acids" or "at least simple organic compounds." Such statements do not begin to address the conditions and processes that led to the assembly of the nucleotides--adenine, guanine, cytosine, thymine and uracil--nor do the statements indicate that the materials necessary to form the nucleotides might be present in hydrothermal vents. Studies of life in hydrothermal vents and of the chemistry of hydrothermal vents have provided no information about the evolution of RNA and DNA and of their nucleotides from inorganic and simple organic molecules. Richard A. Ely Dallas, Tex. BRADLEY REPLIES: Having long argued that tradable rights and subleasing options are critical components of ocean zoning, I was encouraged to see these ideas displayed so prominently in " " [Perspectives]. The ability to trade and negotiate encourages participation in what otherwise could be a very rigid top-down management approach. It can also encourage more efficient use of fish and other resources that are prone to shift over space and time, reducing the necessity during the design phase of trying to match the ecosystem scale with the policy scale--nearly impossible given the myriad socioeconomic and ecological considerations. For more details, please visit Resources for the Future ( ). James N. Sanchirico Department of Environmental Science and Policy University of California, Davis After the marvel, shock and awe of the Antikythera mechanism described by Tony Freeth in " ," there are more questions. This machine was obviously not a one-off or even the first of its kind; there had to be predecessors. Otherwise it would be as if someone 1,000 years from now found an Infiniti Q45 buried in mud and said we must have got tired of walking. We need to find the "Ardi" of the Antikythera. Then there is the manufacturing. Making machine gears requires precision tools and considerable expertise. These were not Rolex watches, but they had to have a high level of precision to operate so many gears in the drive train. Below a certain level of precision the inefficiency of the gearing would make the whole thing inoperable. To make a large, thin gear on a shaft with very small gear teeth mesh without wobbling, run in both directions, and control dials and pointers several gear sets away without much play or lash requires a level of sophistication in metallurgy, machine design and precision machining on a level with the concept, design and purpose of this incredible mechanism. Lowndes Whatley Roswell, Ga.  In " ," Avery E. Broderick and Abraham Loeb explain that inside the event horizon of a black hole everything moves toward the singularity. In particular, any virtual gravitons emitted by the singularity will be trapped inside that singularity. Therefore, there could be no gravitation field outside the singularity, and the space around the singularity must be flat. But in that case, nothing would hinder the virtual gravitons from freely propagating. Is there a solution to this conundrum? Moshe Rozenblit Jersey City, N.J. EDITOR GRAHAM P. COLLINS REPLIES: I was disappointed and dismayed by Lawrence M. Krauss's " " [Critical Mass]. I agree with his political positions, but the way he presented them was shallow, unthoughtful and insulting to people who have genuinely held positions that differ from his own. Krauss's piece makes the magazine look like a liberal blowhard--especially because Krauss provides no thoughtful policy analysis, no new insights into the science of health care or politics, and it treats anyone with whom he disagrees with great disrespect. ("Zombielike protesters"? No--active citizens who disagree with him.) David G. Haskell Department of Biology University of the South Sewanee, Tenn. KRAUSS REPLIES: This article was originally published with the title "Hydrothermal Vents Ocean Policy Ancient Greeks" in Scientific American  302, 4, 8-10 (April 2010) 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.