Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Whether or not there is an actual "war on science" under way, a million supporters of evidence-based thinking felt threatened enough to show up to the global 2017 March for Science. President Donald Trump has called global warming a "hoax," and his administration has canceled, blocked and defunded scientific efforts to protect the environment and public health. Moreover, climate change denial is not restricted to the U.S., and dozens of countries have banned the cultivation of GMO crops, despite evidence that genetically modified foods are just as safe as traditionally bred varieties. There are many ways to fight back, including improving education, outreach and political reform. But science must also tackle its own problems, from how we fund it to how we treat young scientists, ensure reproducible results, curb sexual harassment and encourage interdisciplinarity. Some creative solutions are already showing promise on these fronts, but science must fortify itself to withstand the current assault. by John P. A. Ioannidis by Shannon Palus by Clara Moskowitz by Rebecca Boyle by Graham A. J. Worthy and Cherie L. Yestrebsky This article was originally published with the title "How to Fix Science" in Scientific American  319, 4, 50-51 (October 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1018-50 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.