Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A tool that helps to match immediate reward with long-term value motivated people to make better decisions and overcome procrastination Choosing between instant gratification and future benefit can easily lead to shortsighted decisions: streaming TV instead of going to the gym, for example, or scrolling through social media rather than working on a challenging project. "Because of this misalignment between immediate reward and long-term value, people often struggle to do what's best for them in the long run," says Falk Lieder, a cognitive scientist at the Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems in Tubingen, Germany. To guide individuals toward optimal choices, Lieder and his colleagues designed a digital tool they call a "cognitive prosthesis." It helps to match a decision's immediate reward with its long-term worth--using artificial intelligence to augment human decision-making through a to-do list. The researchers developed a set of models and algorithms that consider various elements such as a list of tasks, an individual's subjective aversion to each and the amount of time available. The system then assigns reward points to each task in a way that is customized to encourage that person to complete them all. "The idea was to turn the challenging projects that people pursue in the real world into a gamelike environment," Lieder says. "The point system [gives] people proximal, attainable goals that signal that they're making progress." The team tested the setup in a series of experiments with human subjects. The results, published online in August in , revealed that the AI support system helped people make better, faster decisions and procrastinate less--and it made them more likely to complete all the assigned tasks. In one experiment, in which the researchers presented 120 participants with a list of several writing assignments, they found that 85 percent of individuals who used the tool completed all their tasks; the rate was only 56 percent for those not using it. The difference in completion rates was "quite impressive," says Mike Oaksford, a psychologist at Birkbeck, University of London, who was not involved in the study. "That seems to me to be a convincing demonstration that procrastination is something that this strategy [can] help with quite a lot." Lieder says one of the current tool's limitations is that it can handle only short to-do lists, so he and his team are trying to scale it up for a larger number of tasks. At the same time, they are working with a company called Complice to integrate the tool into an existing to-do list app. The researchers also plan to run field experiments to see how well their cognitive prosthesis fares in the real world. This article was originally published with the title "Procrastination Tech Support" in Scientific American  321, 5, 16-17 (November 2019) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1119-16 is a freelance journalist who covers health and the life sciences. She is based in Berlin. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.