Read Our Latest Issue A new survey shows that even protected areas are failing to stem the tide of plant and animal extinctions India's Supreme Court has temporarily . The problem? All those hotels and shops built within the protected areas for the tourists are cutting down on actual forest habitat for the endangered big cats. In addition, local governments have failed to create buffer zones of slightly less degraded forest around the parks to enable the rare tigers to thrive. The tall trees of such a protected swath of tropical forest often rise like a wall from a denuded hillside or plain. Such stands of relatively untouched trees are meant as shelters for the rich array of plant and animal species, such as the tiger, that once spread throughout vast regions of tropical jungle. But a that largely agrees with the Indian court's ruling finds that the more than 16,000 independent parks and reserves around the world protected by humans from humans may not prove a long-term refuge. Interviews with scientists and other experts to assess the relative health of some 60 protected areas of tropical forest in 36 different nations reveal that roughly half are continuing to lose unique species of plants and animals.  The problem appears to be the degradation of surrounding forestland that remains unprotected, according to the published online in on June 25 ( is a part of Nature Publishing Group). The scientists surveyed their colleagues to assess the relative health of more than 30 different groups of species from apex predators, like the , to vines and plants that grow on top of other plants in African, American and Asian reserves. The reserves themselves ranged in size from as little as 160 hectares to 3.6 million hectares--but size was no predictor of health. Instead, the most important thing that determined the health of these areas was the state of the lands surrounding them. Eighty-five percent of the reserves saw the or suffering from other significant impacts. In addition, many reserves themselves saw their own jungle canopies thin out: Trees were cut down for removal and sale or to make room for hotels or even increased hunting. As a result, the number of exotic plants and animals as well as freshwater fish declined in most reserves. But some species benefited, including trees that specialize in filling disturbed ecosystems as well as human diseases that emerge from interactions with wild animals--so-called . "The fates of will be determined by environmental changes both within and around the reserves," the researchers , noting that, essentially, protected areas needed to be better protected. "It is not enough to confine such efforts to reserve interiors while ignoring their surrounding landscapes." The scientists, like the Indian high court, call for more "sizable buffer zones" around such parks. They also recommend creating connections between reserve areas such as the in southern Africa. Another such proposal would build a string of connected reserves down the spine of the Americas or begin to connect tiger reserves in India. In addition, the authors also call for efforts to --much as tiger tourism has created an industry wherever the endangered cats linger in India. Without a solution that better manages such reserves to reconcile the often competing needs of humanity and our fellow inhabitants of the planet, like the tiger, even these lands set aside as natural zoos may find themselves haunted by . David Biello is a contributing editor at .  May 3, 2012  --  David Biello September 8, 2009  --  Wendy Lyons Sunshine May 27, 2008  --  Adam Hadhazy July 23, 2012  --  Mark Fischetti July 26, 2012  --  David Biello Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.