Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue People talk a lot about the merits (or not) of the prehistoric hunting-and-gathering "Paleo diet": the idea is that eating the way we had to eat over thousands, even millions, of years would be most conducive to salubrious lives. And it makes some sense that providing the right kind of fuel for our bodies is valuable. But regardless of the exact foods in our diet, as you will learn in our cover story, it's far more important for us to be active to be healthy. "Our taking fewer than 10,000 daily steps is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular and metabolic disease," writes Herman Pontzer of Duke University, author of the feature article "Evolved to Exercise." Unfortunately, he adds, "U.S. adults typically clock about 5,000 steps, which contributes to the alarming rates of type 2 diabetes, affecting one in 10 Americans, and heart disease, which accounts for a quarter of all deaths in the U.S." In contrast, our ape cousins are relatively sedentary yet experience none of the health ailments that we would suffer at similarly low levels of activity. And although chimpanzees have naturally high levels of cholesterol, they do not develop humanlike heart disease. Even in captivity they stay lean and rarely develop diabetes. What's going on? Why are humans the "odd ape out," as Pontzer calls us? Skip your fingers over to "Evolved to Exercise" to learn what research is revealing about our endlessly fascinating species. Whereas exercise has many positive effects on our well-being, Pontzer reminds us that weight loss unfortunately isn't really one of them. (He explained the reasons more fully in his feature "The Exercise Paradox" in the February 2017 issue.) Many of us struggle to avoid excess calories, even though we we should be swapping in vegetables and fruit instead of reaching for those tempting bags of chips and cookies. Are we instead being sabotaged by the microbes that live in our own gut? Recent research in rodents and in patients who have undergone bariatric surgeries suggests that may be the case. These operations reduce the size of the stomach, and they have now been found to have additional effects; namely, they can change how the brain areas involved in communicating with the gut behave. In "Mind over Meal," medical writer Bret Stetka discusses how these parts of the brain become hyperactive compared with their earlier activity. As a result, people may become satiated sooner, enabling new, beneficial eating habits. The story is ready to be consumed. Bon appetit! This article was originally published with the title "Running for Our Lives" in Scientific American  320, 1, 4 (January 2019) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0119-4 Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.