Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue All people had to do to stay safe from the global WannaCry ransomware attack was update their software. But people often don't, for a number of specific reasons The global ransomware attack called "WannaCry," which , could have been avoided, or at least made much less serious, if people (and companies) kept their computer software up to date. The attack's spread demonstrates how are running outdated software that leaves them vulnerable. The victims include . The security flaw that allowed the attack to occur was . But only people who keep their computers updated were protected. Details of the flaw were , a group of hackers who said they had stolen the information from the U.S. National Security Agency. Attackers got into computers through that weakness and encrypted users' data, demanding a ransom from anyone who wanted the data made usable again. But they didn't win the race to exploit the flaw as much as people and computer companies collectively lost it. Our human tendencies and corporate policies worked against us. Research, including my own, tells us why, and offers some suggestions for how to fix it before the inevitable next attack. All people had to do to stay safe from WannaCry was update their software. But people often don't, for a number of specific reasons. In 2016, researchers from the University of Edinburgh and Indiana University asked 307 people to discuss their . Nearly half of them said they had been frustrated updating software; just 21 percent had a positive story to tell. Researchers highlighted the response of one participant who noted that Windows updates are available frequently-- , and occasionally in between those regular changes. The updates can take a long time. But even short updates can interrupt people's regular workflow, so that study participant--and doubtless many others--avoids installing updates for "as long as possible." Some people may also be concerned that updating software . This is a particular concern for running specialized software. It can also be very hard to tell whether a new update is truly necessary. The software that fixed the WannaCry vulnerability came out in a regular second-Tuesday update, which may have made it seem more routine. Research tells us that . Consequently, these monthly updates may be especially easy to ignore. The companies putting out the updates don't always help much, either. Of the 18 updates Microsoft released on March 14, including the WannaCry fix, half were rated "critical," and the rest were labeled "important." That leaves users with little information they could use to prioritize their own updates. If, for example, it was clear that skipping a particular update would leave users vulnerable to a dangerous ransomware attack, people might agree to interrupt their work to protect themselves. Even security experts struggle to prioritize. The day the fix was released, Microsoft watcher Chris Goettel . Security company Qualys also failed to include that specific update in its . The most common recommendation is to update everything immediately. People just don't do that, though. A 2015 survey by Google found that more than one-third of security professionals don't keep their systems current. Only or immediately upon being notified a new version is available. Even fewer--just 38 percent--of regular users do the same. Another research project and found that people with some expertise in computer science tend to update more quickly than nonexperts. But it's still slow: From the time an update is released, it takes an average of 24 days before half of the computers belonging to software engineers are updated. Regular users took nearly twice as long, with 45 days passing before half of them had completed the same update. Experts might be quicker at updating because they understand better the potential vulnerabilities updates might fix. Therefore, they might be more willing to suffer the annoyances of interrupted work and multiple restarts. Software companies are working on making updates more seamless and less disruptive. Google's Chrome web browser, for example, --downloading new information in the background and making the changes when a user quits and then reopens the program. The goal is for the user not to know an update even happened. That's not the right choice for all kinds of updates, though. For example, the Windows update needed to protect against the WannaCry attack requires the computer to restart. Users won't tolerate their computers shutting down and restarting with no warning. So computer companies must try to convince us--and we must convince ourselves--that updates are important. My own research focuses on doing just this, by about computer security. In our first experiment evaluating the video, we conducted a month-long study to compare our video with an article of advice from security firm McAfee. The video was effective for more of our participants than the McAfee article was. Our video was also equally or more effective, overall, at improving people's updating practices. Trying new approaches to teaching security behaviors such as our edutainment video, or even , may be a first step toward helping us stay safer online. Elissa Redmiles is a faculty member and Research Group Leader at the Max Planck Institute for Software Systems and CEO of Human Computing Associates. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.