Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The first 3-D--printed drug, a malaria vaccine approval and more! The Food and Drug Administration approved the world's first 3-D-printed drug, for an epilepsy treatment called Spritam. The number of extruded layers determines the dosage per pill. Analysis of 37 water samples from in and around Rio de Janeiro's Guanabara Bay, the planned site for some of the 2016 Summer Olympic events, revealed abnormally high levels of harmful bacteria, including human adenovirus, which causes intestinal and respiratory diseases. European regulators based in London green-lit for the first time a vaccine for malaria--a disease that kills more than 500,000 people a year, most of them children in sub-Saharan Africa. The World Heath Organization will further review the vaccine's effectiveness this month before distribution begins as early as 2017. On a tour of his father's homeland, President Barack Obama announced new rules that will ban almost all ivory sales within the U.S., the second-largest ivory market after China. Illegal poaching accounts for the deaths of at least 50,000 African elephants every year. The nation's space program began assembling a reflector for the Five-hundred-meter Aperture Spherical radio Telescope (FAST)--set to become the world's largest single-dish radio telescope when completed sometime next year. Engineers successfully drove a car over a mobile, expandable bridge inspired by origami. The 57-foot-long prototype is made from steel and aluminum alloy and could temporarily replace structures destroyed by floods or earthquakes. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  313, 4, 25 (October 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1015-25 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.