Read Our Latest Issue Take a and share your experience Isabel Torres, Ph.D., is a science editor/writer, a science communicator and a solo mom of four based in France. Formerly an academic researcher in cell biology, she is passionate about promoting scientific literacy and advocating for women in STEM and gender equality. She is co-founder and CEO of Mothers in Science. Follow Isabel on Twitter/Instagram @prettysmartsci. Ryan Watkins, Ph.D., is a research scientist at the Planetary Science Institute, U.S., where she uses remote sensing data to study surface properties of the moon and Mercury. She is a mother to three-year-old and one-year-old daughters, and is passionate about advocating for the needs of mothers in the workplace. She is research manager at Mothers in Science. Follow Ryan on Twitter @Ryan_N_Watkins. Martta Liukkonen is a Ph.D. candidate in evolutionary ecology at the University of Jyvaskyla, Finland, and has previously gained a M.Sc. in ecology and evolutionary biology. She is a solo mom of a six-year-old girl and has experience from development cooperation and working with girls' and women's education development. She is a research officer at Mothers in Science. Follow Martta on Instagram @marannli. Mei Lin Neo, Ph.D., is a senior research fellow at the Tropical Marine Science Institute, in Singapore. A marine ecologist by training, Mei Lin is now also a mother of a two-year-old girl. She found Mothers in Science when she was struggling to find support or a listening ear after giving birth, and now she hopes to help other mothers in science. She is social media manager at Mothers in Science. Follow Mei Lin on Twitter @MeilinNeo. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.