Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Self-driving vehicles get new laws in California The law is finally catching up to driverless cars. As of September 16, the state of California--home of auto newcomer Google--will require test drivers to have a special license, like a trucker or school bus driver. They will need to be employees or contractors of the car manufacturer, complete safety training, and have clean road records. Carmakers themselves will have to apply for a testing permit annually, install manual controls and override systems in each car, submit incident reports and secure $5 million in insurance. These new rules come into effect at a time when a handful of players, including Google and Nissan, are testing driverless technologies. Up until now, autonomous test vehicles have had a spotless record; Google's fleet of modified Lexus sedans, for instance, has driven more than 700,000 miles without an accident. The most pressing issue for the California Department of Motor Vehicles and manufacturers is ensuring the ongoing safety of these cars--prototypes, all--and the cars around them. In essence, regulators are trying to keep pace with driverless technology, says Bryant Walker Smith, a fellow at the Center for Automotive Research at Stanford University. The upcoming California laws will make many of the safety checks already in place in driverless prototypes, including the presence of a human operator and a vehicle that is street legal, mandatory. (That means that Google engineers will need to add manual controls to the company's new self-driving car before it can go onto public roads.) The California dmv is not stipulating anything about the technologies themselves, which keeps companies free to test new systems. Laws will continue to evolve as the technology becomes more advanced. By December the California dmv will release another set of regulations laying out the requirements for everyday drivers to pilot autonomous vehicles. A second set may also be necessary for cars that drive themselves absent any driver. But that does not mean we will be hailing robo taxis by this time next year. Nissan says it will not roll out a driverless car until 2020, and everyone else will also proceed with caution. "Every company wants to have the first self-driving car," Walker Smith says, "but no one wants to have the first self-driving car crash." This article was originally published with the title "Street-Legal Robots" in Scientific American  311, 2, 20 (August 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0814-20 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.