Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue   Whether healthy or destructive, habits shape our cognitive wiring. Once they are established, it takes a hefty effort to overwrite those neural connections. In , Duhigg demystifies the brain processes involved in forming and altering these mindless actions. Mindlessness, in fact, defines a habit, but the routine does not start out that way, writes Duhigg, a reporter. Habits, he explains, are choices that all of us deliberately make at some point, and then stop thinking about but continue doing. Not only are they a natural consequence of our neurology, they serve a purpose: without habit, we would spend inordinate amounts of time tending to the mundane but necessary tasks of cleaning, clothing and feeding ourselves. So as we become practiced in a task--essentially, as we learn--mental activity decreases. Studies in rats, for example, show that the brain's basal ganglia stored habits while the rest of the brain took a nap. No surprise, then, that breaking a habit requires cognitive exertion. Habitual actions occur in a loop of cue, routine and reward, with cravings driving the cycle. Luckily, a wealth of science shows you need not deprive yourself of the rewards of your behavior to change it. To break a habit, substitute in a new routine while keeping the original cue and the payoff. This technique may be familiar to recovering alcoholics or those who have tried to stop smoking or overeating. In a neat twist, however, Duhigg shows how football coaches, military officers, CEOs and even civil-rights pioneers have harnessed this golden rule of habit change to turn losing teams into champions, deflate rowdy crowds, ingrain emotional resilience in employees and alter social norms. Glimpsing how habits come to define us provides a fascinating look into human nature. This article was originally published with the title " Reviews: " in SA Mind 23, 3, 70-71 (July 2012) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0712-70a 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.