Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world A sunken museum at La Caleta Underwater National Park will preserve in place a ship that sank in 1725, complete with real (and replica) artifacts kept underwater for people to explore. Submerged artifacts often degrade faster when removed from the sea. New simulations indicate that a rocky valley detected under the island's ice sheet may contain a 1,600-kilometer-long subterranean river, flowing from central Greenland to its northern coast. Archaeologists uncovered gold, jewels and beads in a large building on the now uninhabited Minoan island of Chrysi, a location that about 3,500 years ago was devoted to making purple dye from sea snails called . Researchers found 1,700-year-old chicken eggs, along with other ancient objects, in a waterlogged pit in southeastern England. A few eggs broke during extraction, releasing a sulfurous smell--but one remained intact, making it the only complete egg found from Roman Britain. To help boost Sydney Harbor's endangered seahorse population, scientists bred baby seahorses in an aquarium and built crab-trap-like undersea "hotels" to protect them as they adapt to the wild. Scientists test-drove a meter-long, wheeled rover that streamed live views of the depths as it rolled along the underside of Antarctic ice. The Buoyant Rover for Under-Ice Exploration (BRUIE) could someday explore frozen-over seas on worlds such as Jupiter's moon Europa. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  322, 3, 25 (March 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0320-25 Sarah Lewin Frasier is assistant news editor at and editor of the magazine's Advances section. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.