Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue New lamps could help astronauts get more shut-eye How many NASA engineers does it take to change a lightbulb? The question is no joke to NASA, which is investing $11.4 million to change out aging fluorescent lights in the International Space Station's U.S. On-orbit Segment. When NASA began considering the replacements, doctors realized they had an opportunity to tackle an entirely different problem: astronaut insomnia. Sleep deprivation's fuzziness is an annoyance on Earth but dangerous in space. Although their schedule allows for 8.5 hours of shut-eye a day, astronauts average barely six hours, says NASA medical officer and flight surgeon Smith Johnston. A combination of floating, noise, variable temperature, poor air circulation, backaches and headaches, and a new dawn every 90 minutes confuses circadian rhythms. NASA hopes to fix at least part of the problem with new lamps. Sleep scientists have found that when specific light receptors in our eyes are exposed to a particular wavelength of blue light, we feel more alert because the brain suppresses melatonin, a key hormone in regulating sleep. In contrast, red-spectrum light lets the melatonin flow. The new lamps, from Boeing, comprise a rainbow of more than 100 LED bulbs cloaked by a diffuser, so they appear to be a single panel of white light, says Debbie Sharp, a Boeing senior manager. The fixtures have three modes, each with a subtly different hue: white light is for general vision; a cooler, blue-shifted light promotes alertness; and a warmer, red-shifted light triggers sleepiness. Boeing and its subcontractors expect to deliver 20 lamps in 2015. In the meantime, scientists at institutions such as Harvard Medical School and Thomas Jefferson University are testing the lamps' efficacy. The technology could one day be widespread back on Earth, perhaps illuminating hospital rooms, nuclear submarines, factories or classrooms. "Just because the world has been using fluorescent lighting for years doesn't mean it's the best," says study collaborator Elizabeth Klerman of Harvard. This article was originally published with the title "Naps in Space" in Scientific American  308, 2, 18 (February 2013) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0213-18b Katie Worth is a science writer based in Santiago, Chile. Her hobbies include hiking, living in large foreign cities, and clicking the "random article" button on Wikipedia. She expects this blog to become less and less coherent as she becomes more and more sleep-deprived. Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.