Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Brain-related events, movies, conferences and more On this day in 1934, Canadian scientist Herbert Jasper of Brown University made the first electrical tracing from a human brain. Jasper, considered to be one of the founders of modern neuroscience, pioneered the (EEG) to study electrical activity associated with fundamental brain functions such as consciousness and learning. He and his collaborator, neurosurgeon Wilder Penfield, also elucidated the mechanism underlying epilepsy and invented a highly successful procedure to treat seizures. Their work has contributed largely to our understanding of functional anatomy and lateralization of the human brain. Pop song spoof artist "Weird Al" Yankovic lends his goofy talent to science education as a virtual guide in the . At the Orange County Fair, through August 9, he will host a 3-D animated tour of the human brain. The film's finale is a Brainitorium exclusive--Weird Al's first computer-generated music video for a new tune he calls "The Brain Song."   Alternative therapies are increasingly used alongside and in conjunction with conventional medicine. Health care professionals will share their expertise in mind-body medicine at the AlterMed Research Foundation's Colorado Integrative Medicine Conference. Presentations will address how techniques such as mindfulness, biofeedback and meditation can manage stress and complement traditional treatments.   Advances in genetic research are arguably redefining the field of psychology. In his keynote address at the , Francis Collins, former director of the National Human Genome Research Institute, will discuss the implications of genetics for behavioral science. Conference participants will discuss new research on timely issues ranging from the war on terror and the current economic crisis to happiness in turbulent times and anger disorders.   The practice of art therapy, often used to aid recovery from trauma and emotional distress, has been strongly influenced by Swiss psychiatrist Carl Jung's belief that visual imagery provides a powerful window into the human experience. Jung emphasized that the psyche could best be understood by exploring not only art but also mythology, dreams and religion. Talks at the will cleave closely to Jung's teachings: they will draw on the roles of nature, politics and archetypal images as each intersects with the mind.   Leon Festinger's was published on this day in 1957. Cognitive dissonance, one of the most influential and well-studied theories in social psychology, refers to the uncomfortable feeling a person has when he or she holds two contradictory ideas or behaviors at the same time; a classic example involves a smoker who knows the health risks of smoking. The theory asserts that people experience a motivational drive to reduce the dissonance, often not by stopping a behavior but by rationalizing it--using the argument, for instance, that smoking keeps my weight down and that obesity is even worse. Let Wallace & Gromit, the animated duo responsible for kooky contraptions and oddball business schemes, guide your family through , an exhibition at London's Science Museum designed to inspire a new generation of innovative minds. Kids can fuel their creative streaks by interacting with real devices that have transformed our daily lives. The exhibit runs through November 1, but youngsters can visit www.crackingideas.com all year-round to enter contests with their own inventions.   Are you a good multitasker? Can you read a poker face? Find out at , a permanent exhibit at the Exploratorium. A product of four years of collaboration with world-renowned cognitive scientists, this collection of more than 40 interactive stations guarantees you'll learn something new about your mind. If you can't visit in person, the Web site lets you try many of the activities remotely.   This article was originally published with the title "Calendar" in SA Mind 20, 4, 23 (July 2009) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0709-23 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.