Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The latest science book recommendations from our editors Edited by Laura Fecych Sprague and Justin Wolff Pennsylvania State University Press, 2019 ($39.95). Exhibit:12/12/19 to 5/31/20, Bowdoin College Museum of Art In his obituary in this magazine, published on September 6, 1884, Rufus Porter is described as a "remarkable natural genius" who had a peculiar tendency to move quickly from one occupation and place to another. "Although he might be doing well at the business which for the time engaged his attention, he would sell out and abandon it the moment a new idea came into his mind," the writer remarked. "His brain was an overflowing fountain of new ideas and active projects." Porter was a prolific inventor and is credited with dozens of inventions, including a flying ship, a portable camera obscura, a rotary plow, and more. He left many of his projects unfinished--this happened with a revolving almanac he was perfecting in 1823, when he quickly changed gears to work on a new kind of boat intended to traverse the Connecticut River. He made his primary living as an artist, painting portraits, landscapes and architecture. In 1845 he published the first issue of , which he ran for less than a year before moving on to his next occupation. Thankfully, this endeavor endured well beyond his lifetime. The image of our first issue is in this new collection of Porter's works and part of an exhibition alongside many of his portraits and illustrations of his inventions, housed at the Bowdoin College Museum of Art in Brunswick, Maine. This article was originally published with the title "Recommended" in Scientific American  322, 2, 67 (February 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0220-67 Andrea Gawrylewski is the collections editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.