Read Our Latest Issue In the year these images were published, a century ago, an equal number of people in America lived in the cities and in the countryside. But by the end of the decade the urban population was larger, as farms replaced horses and laborers with machines and farmhands and their families moved to the cities to work in factories that paid more than they could earn as agricultural laborers. From photographs, art and movies we have some idea of the extremes of city living (then and now!). In New York, for instance, we can see the squalid slums photographed by Jacob Riis, and we can peek in on the opulent life of Gilded Age industrialists (robber barons?) such as Andrew Carnegie, whose extravagent mansion is now the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum. But the vast majority of people living in cities with large and dense populations relied heavily on technology to enable them to live and work comfortably or even tolerably. Housing, transportation, electricity grids, water supplies, sewer systems--these made up the body of modern city life. Our slide show here is a small peek into the vast complexity of the urban engineering that goes into helping a city survive and thrive. For a more complete look at the growth in the technology over the past 170 years, our Scientific American Archive is available for purchase here: This article was originally published with the title "Urban Engineering in 1916: Science and Technology for the City" in Scientific American  315, 6,  (December 2016) Dan Schlenoff is a contributing editor at and has edited the 50, 100 and 150 Years Ago column for one seventh of the magazine's history. Credit: Nick Higgins November 15, 2016 December 1, 2016  --  Daniel C. Schlenoff Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.