Read Our Latest Issue Richard Fitzpatrick of the University of New South Wales in Australia and his colleagues gathered five men and five women and set them on a path. After staring at a target six meters (20 feet) away, the subjects were blindfolded and the researchers began running a slight electrical current through electrodes placed behind their ears. The current disrupted the constant electrical signaling produced by the sensory hair cells in the three canals of the inner ear. (They fire 90 times a second when the head is at rest.) Their continuous firing rate tells the brain exactly how the head is moving, which the brain then uses to maintain balance and direction. But when that signaling is disrupted, either by increasing or decreasing its rate, walking chaos ensues. The researchers could drive the subject to either the right or left depending on the direction of the current, basically convincing the brain that the head was rotating in a given direction and forcing it to make concomitant adjustments in the direction of the walk in order to arrive at the now misperceived goal. Further, if the researchers asked the subjects to tilt their heads forward toward the ground or backward toward the sky they would veer off course by an even greater degree. And when subjects held their heads only slightly back, the current completely disrupted their balance, inducing swaying and stumbling. The research shows that the human walk depends on the accuracy of the signals of these tiny hair cells in the ear. Further experiments in the Sydney Botanic Gardens proved that researchers could guide a blindfolded subject through its meandering pathways via electrical cues alone. "By manually adjusting the stimulus intensity and polarity we could, by remote radio control, steer freely walking subjects so that they kept to the paths and avoided obstacles for periods of many minutes," the team writes in the paper presenting the research in this week's "Stimulation techniques developed from those that we used here will provide a fundamental understanding of the processes of spatial representation and transformation in the brain and thus lead the way to diagnostic, therapeutic and virtual-reality applications." David Biello is a contributing editor at . 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.