Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue  Whitaker, a longtime medical journalist, builds a disturbing and enthralling case that long-term prescriptions for psychiatric medications damage the brain and are directly responsible for the rising rates of mental illness in the U.S.  As a child, Catmull, a co-founder of Pixar Animation Studios, had two heroes: Walt Disney and Albert Einstein. His dual passions for artistry and technical wizardry were integral to Pixar's founding. Yet the company's growth from scrappy little studio to Hollywood mainstay kept threatening to throttle workers' creativity. In this book, Catmull shares the lessons he learned about inspiring employees to think freely even as a company grows.  Ever wonder what happens in your brain when you decipher the punch line of a joke? In , cognitive neuroscientist Weems divulges the answer to this question, along with many other scientifically backed factoids on the nature of humor. I discovered, for example, that the duck is the funniest animal in the English language and that my response to a joke could reveal personality traits. And best of all, left me with a score of groan-worthy wisecracks for amusing friends and family. This article was originally published with the title "On Our Shelf" in SA Mind 26, 2, 77 (March 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0315-77b Karen Schrock Simring is a contributor to . Daisy Yuhas is a science writer and features editor for SAPIENS. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.