Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Science in meter and verse The Squamscott River grew lazy in early summer-- muskrat rose and dove heron swept the air and landed and hemlocks that had survived another century's practice of harvesting their bark were thriving. Some suffered beaver girdles and the predation by woolly adelgids but still the pileated woodpeckers found what they required in the snags. This is how it was for us--pulling threads of hope out of the air as if we had the skill to weave them back into webs. We surprised ourselves when it worked-- so much needed to be undone. And I promise you that as paltry as our efforts may seem to you--no. I won't justify our failures. The story of the alewives' return--that's what I wanted you to know because it helps to think of desires that last for centuries without being satisfied. How far inland did the alewives come, I wondered, the dam removed after three hundred years and in the first year then they came in a rush. Locals could hear the gulls gathered in the estuary in their joy and the alewives swam and swam to the reaches of their ancestors--eleven miles and three hundred years of appetite for place their genes remembered and knew how to find. The Abenaki offered a welcome back ceremony. And fishers gathered--human cat and bird to feast and the memory that had been thwarted for centuries became a fertile flow. This article was originally published with the title "Letter to 2050" in Scientific American  324, 1, 22 (January 2021) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0121-22 is Regents Professor of Creative Writing at the University of Arizona, where she also holds the Agnese Nelms Haury Chair in Environment and Social Justice. She has won many awards for her nonfiction, as well as for her poetry collections, the most recent of which is (Penguin, 2016). Credit: Nick Higgins 5 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 7 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.