Read Our Latest Issue How a surface deflects radio waves is influenced by the so-called dielectric constant of the material. William M. Healy of the National Institute of Standards and Technology and Eric van Doorn of Intelligent Automation, Inc., exploited the fact that water content affects the magnitude of the dielectric constant to develop their approach to searching for water within walls. They built simplified wall sections out of gypsum board, drywall, insulation and a material similar to plywood, subjected the makeshift walls to varying levels of humidity and then exposed them to radio waves. The amount of time it took for a signal to return to the antenna helped identify the presence of water, and computer software allowed the scientists to create three-dimensional maps that identified wet sections ( ). In a paper to be published in an upcoming issue of the journal they report that, so far, they have been able to locate pockets of moisture to within one centimeter. The next step for the researchers is to determine how the system performs when it examines real structures, which include studs, wires, pipes and other components that may interfere with the readings. They note that their preliminary results "indicate that the development of a handheld, UWB based, non-contact moisture sensor is feasible." That could make the job of a plumber searching for a leaky pipe a lot easier. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.