Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Why the U.S. destroyed a multimillion-dollar stockpile of illegal ivory On a clear November day outside Denver, dust filled the air as an industrial rock crusher pulverized nearly six tons of confiscated elephant ivory. Loader trucks dumped batch after batch of whole tusks, carved figurines, bracelets and other baubles into the giant blue crusher, which spat out a stream of fragments that looked like bits of seashell. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service destroyed the 25-year stash of ivory seizures--worth perhaps $12 million on the black market--to signal to the world that the U.S. will not tolerate elephant poaching or wildlife crime in general. Even though international commercial trade in ivory has been outlawed since 1989, poachers continue to kill African elephants for their tusks--one every 15 minutes. At that rate, the animals could be extinct in the wild within decades. Authorities are concerned not just with the volume of the ivory trade but with whom is doing the killing. Today's poaching crisis is the work of transnational criminal syndicates that traffic in wildlife just as they traffic in humans, drugs and arms. Profits from the illegal sale of ivory, rhinoceros horn and other wildlife products--a $19-billion-a-year industry--are now known to fund terrorist and other extremist groups. The countries that harbor wild elephants rarely have the resources to counter such foes. Whether the destruction of ivory stockpiles will actually help stamp out the trade is a matter of some debate. Critics contend that by reducing the ivory supply, such actions may drive up the price and thus stimulate even more poaching. Yet past attempts to do the opposite by flooding the market with ivory have backfired and driven more poaching, says Peter Knights of WildAid, a nongovernmental organization based in San Francisco. "I think we have to look at history, and we have to learn this lesson," Knights asserts, likening criminal wildlife trafficking to the drug trade. "We don't put heroin back on the market when we seize it". . This article was originally published with the title "Tusk to Dust" in Scientific American  310, 2, 18 (February 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0214-18 Kate Wong is a senior editor for evolution and ecology at . Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.