Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The number of positions hit a record high this year, even as the number of non-U.S. citizens who applied declined Hospitals offered a record number of residency positions and more doctors than ever will start their medical careers this summer, according to data released Friday. The new figures from the National Resident Matching Program arrive on Match Day, when thousands of medical students in the United States and around the world learn where they've "matched" for a residency program, after finding out on Monday whether they matched at all. One figure of note: There was a small decline in the number of people, US citizen or otherwise, who graduated from medical school abroad and tried to match. The number of international medical graduates who are not US citizens and who applied dropped from 7,460 in 2016 to 7,284 this year. The report does not explain why there was a decline and does not go into country-by-country detail. But this year's match process came as President Trump tried to temporarily block the arrival of people from some majority-Muslim countries and has imposed restrictions on sometimes used in residencies. Although federal judges have blocked Trump's executive orders, hospitals would not want to take the risk of ranking students from the listed countries in case they ran into trouble getting visas and joining the residency programs. People involved in the match process also raised the idea that people from those countries might be discouraged from applying because of the proposals. Still, 52.4 percent of non-US citizens from schools abroad matched into a position, which was the highest rate for that group in over a decade.  More highlights from the report: entered a scramble this week to find an unfilled spot. Programs with open residency positions can interview unmatched students throughout the week and extend offers through the Supplemental Offer and Acceptance Program, . This year, 1,177 spots were up for grabs during SOAP. The number filled was not immediately available. STAT delivers fast, deep, and tough-minded journalism. We take you inside science labs and hospitals, biotech boardrooms, and political backrooms. We dissect crucial discoveries. We examine controversies and puncture hype. We hold individuals and institutions accountable. We introduce you to the power brokers and personalities who are driving a revolution in human health. These are the stories that matter to us all. June 13, 2016  --  Nathaniel P. Morris February 1, 2017  --  Seema Yasmin Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.