Read Our Latest Issue We ask our board of advisers to choose the technologies that they cannot live without Readers are bombarded with many "best-of" lists this time of year touting the latest and greatest in technology. decided to broaden this idea a bit further, in search of a sampling of technologies that members of our advisory board--a group of highly accomplished scientists, engineers, educators and entrepreneurs--could not possibly live without. "Technology" was defined loosely--it could have been a high-tech personal gadget such as an iPhone or something as basic as a nail clipper. The answers [ ] were at times surprising but always interesting. also threw the same question out to our readers. To see their responses . "My iPhone, my three Macs and my bike. All three embody the perfect fusion of form and function. You only get this rarely. The , the Boeing 747, the Golden Gate Bridge, the iPhone and the Mac--these are some of the few human artifacts that embody this key principle of evolutionary design. And all three are essential to urban living in a high-tech world--to stay connected, to stay mobile and to work anywhere and anytime. Having three Macs is basic to my lifestyle--one iMac with the big integrated screen at work, a second one at home and an Air/laptop for travels." " iPhone ECG/EKG...it's the hottest!!! It's absolutely transformative to cardiovascular health, has been approved in Europe and is heading for U.S. approval."  "For me it's the pen, more than any other. There is no instrument more powerful than the writing instrument in my mind. Ability to communicate and 'archive' thought, enabled through writing."  "For something ubiquitous that we don't notice, yet 'indispensable' and with huge recent improvements, I'd nominate 'intentional genetics' [the altering of genetic information to produce a desired effect--ed.]. This invention dates back 9,000 years and affects essentially all of our food, pets, children and medical practice. It is beginning to impact our and .  It is quite likely that millions would die if we removed this invention (or even the past few years of improvements) from the earth--probably more impact than if we removed all iPhones."  "I could not survive without a ballpoint pen in my back pocket. It's invaluable for scribbling notes on the front of my hand (my version of the PalmPilot...) to remind me to do things I used to be able to remember unaided before my age converged with my IQ while traveling in opposite directions."  "Indoor plumbing! It's the most important gadget we've got--everything else is child's play."  "The three higher-tech things that I most depend on are my couple-year-old MacBook Pro, my couple-year-old 32 gigabyte iPhone, and my several-year-old Bose wave radio. My wife's Volvo XC70 is also pretty nice."   Larry Greenemeier is the associate editor of technology for , covering a variety of tech-related topics, including biotech, computers, military tech, nanotech and robots. Credit: Nick Higgins December 7, 2011  --  Larry Greenemeier December 10, 2010  --  Larry Greenemeier November 11, 2011 November 2, 2011  --  Elena Malykhina  Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.