Read Our Latest Issue Levitate a ball on an invisible stream of air Gravity Air pressure Fluid dynamics   Flying is thrilling. Do you ever make paper airplanes to watch them soar--or marvel at hot air balloons as they float through the sky? There are many ways of keeping objects aloft. Planes use lift by accelerating to high speeds; hot air balloons heat air so that it "floats" above ambient air. In this activity you'll explore a different form of keeping an object aloft--and learn about gravity at the same time.   Getting an object to fly is an amazing feat. With this activity you'll explore balance of an airstream's push and gravity's pull. When you try to pull the ball out of the airstream, you can feel a force pulling it back in. You can also feel the stream of air is being deflected by the ball. These are all clues to understanding one of the forces that give airplanes lift.     When the ball is suspended in the airstream, the air flowing upward hits the bottom of the ball and slows down, generating a region of higher pressure. The high-pressure region of air under the ball holds the ball up against the pull of gravity.  When you pull the ball partially out of the airstream, the air flows around the curve of the ball that is nearest the center of the airstream. Air rushes in an arc around the top of the ball and then continues outward above the ball.  This outward-flowing air exerts an inward force on the ball, just like the downward flow of air beneath a helicopter exerts an upward force on the blades of the helicopter. This explanation is based on Newton's law of action and reaction.  When you approach a wall with the balanced ball, the high-pressure region under the ball becomes a region of even higher pressure. The air that hits the bottom of the ball can no longer expand outward in the direction of the wall. The higher pressure drives the ball to a greater height.    , from Aviation for Kids  , from Decode Science Wind Tubes ( ), from Exploratorium  , from Exploratorium   Exploralab: 150 Ways to Investigate the Amazing Science All Around You  6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.