Read Our Latest Issue An exhibition of inventions, artwork and artifacts explores our relationship with water and how the world might cope with future scarcity of this invaluable resource You are a bag of water--some three quarters H2O at birth, falling to three fifths in adulthood--so the fate of Earth's freshwater resources in large part delineates your fate as well. "Surface Tension: The Future of Water," explores the matchless beauty of water and celebrates humankind's diverse interactions with our most important molecule. The exhibition, being mounted by the at Trinity College Dublin as part of New York City's upcoming May 30 to June 3, also considers various critical aspects of the present state of our water supply as well as what may happen to it in time.  Earth has plentiful water, but only a tiny fraction is available for human use, and a still smaller amount is potable. The seven billion people living on our planet rely on the same 1 percent of available freshwater as did every previous generation. In the meantime many of us use far too much freshwater whereas many more cannot find enough to use at all, and climate change can only exacerbate the problem--a disturbing prospect that may result . The interactive show, which comprises more than 50 different exhibits developed by scientists, engineers, artists and designers, delves into the multiplicity of our relations with the very stuff of life, playing on water's unique physical properties, its crucial roles in living, political and economic systems, and new ways by which it can be . Jump in.   Steven Ashley is a staff editor and writer. Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.