Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue New ideas about human evolution reveal just how unique Homo sapiens are In the , devoted to human evolution, paleoanthropologist Ian Tattersall discusses how a capacity for toolmaking and other cultural developments worked in conjunction with luck to foster the success of . Luck came in the form of the climate shifts that served to accelerate the rate of evolution and the adaptation of beneficial traits among certain of our archaic forebears. In the how his field has changed since he first entered it nearly 50 years ago. Students of human evolution long believed that the story of our species origins was linear, "from primitiveness to perfection." Scientists now know that the evolutionary path from apes to modern man was far more convoluted, populated with many rival hominins (the group including modern humans and their extinct relations) whose survival was periodically challenged by unpredictable climate shifts. He also speaks of what makes special. That our species is the only surviving hominin in the world is testament, he says, to how exceptional we are. We are unique in that we use symbols to represent the world, moving them around and recombining them to create "alternatives to existing reality." This cognitive faculty also means we are able to ponder where we came from. The study of human evolution, Tattersall notes, holds "a special fascination for human beings, who, of course, are a very egotistical species." This article was originally published with the title "If I Had a Hammer" in Scientific American  311, 3,  (September 2014) Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.