Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the December 2013 issue of .  " ," by Daniel M. Wegner and Adrian F. Ward, discusses studies indicating that the Internet has changed the way humans have traditionally allocated remembering certain facts to others and our sense of self. I worry that the Internet-induced high "cognitive self-esteem"--the sense of being smart or good at remembering--the authors report might discourage students from taking the care to patiently learn about profound concepts. Try looking up "topological group" or "chord progression." Some of the most interesting subjects can't be understood with the touch of a button. Lance Waltner  . Wegner and Ward mention, as evidence of a profound psychological change created by the Internet, an experiment in which subjects remembered facts they typed into a computer much worse if they were told that the computer had saved them. But the same would have happened if subjects had written facts on paper, and then some were told that the paper had been filed and others that it had been burned. Guy Ottewell  The authors ignored a big difference between asking friends and family for information versus looking it up online: you don't usually need to worry that the former have been paid to deceive you using sophisticated marketing or propaganda. R. Allen Gilliam  . In " ," Jennifer Frazer discusses the unexpected spread of the airborne, lung-infecting fungus in Canada and the Pacific Northwest, where it was previously unknown. is described as infecting porpoises as well as people and other animals. How better to aerosolize and spread a pulmonary infection than for a sick and dying porpoise to spray fungus from its blowhole just offshore? And if infects one cetacean, could it also be infecting others? Jim Saklad  . C. gattii C. gattii C. gattii. In " " [Forum], Harold O. Levy expresses alarm at the percentage of graduate and undergraduate degrees in science and engineering awarded to foreign students in the U.S. He states that "the U.S. public education system ... does not produce enough high school graduates who are qualified for college work." The number of U.S. students taking Advanced Placement exams has increased every year since their inception, and the majority of students have been passing them. Last year more than two million students took almost four million AP exams. The pass rate was generally around 60 percent. It seems that enough students are qualified to pursue higher education in science and technology but choose not to do so. George Schuttinger  . As a chemistry teacher in high school, I have watched the standards and testing increase while the breadth of the subjects narrows because we teach only what is on the test. Our school district has not even taught science in elementary schools for years because it is not tested. The more No Child Left Behind intruded into the school system, the less of a priority depth of understanding became. We need to get these "reformers," who have never had a class of 38 students, out of education. Furthermore, our students do not understand that education is a valuable commodity. If you want better schools, make education priority one at the dinner table. Art Aronsen  . More Americans don't get Ph.D.s in engineering because it makes no economic sense. An engineer with a bachelor's can give up, say, one year's earnings to get a master's and expect to make that back in three to four years from the higher salary. An engineer giving up three to five years' earnings from a master's to get a Ph.D. can expect to make the lost income back sometime between 20 years and never. Richard J. Weader II  In " ," Elizabeth A. Tibbetts and Adrian G. Dyer describe their work showing that insects such as paper wasps and honeybees are able to recognize individual faces of others in their species. Do these insects show a difference between the sexes in this ability? Dennis Weber  . . In "I " [Skeptic], Michael Shermer's argument that religion is declining is short on hard and social science. Shermer gives one point from a supposedly longitudinal study but asserts time trend results. Likewise, he surmises that because religions help the poor, richer nations become less religious, yet he pronounces the U.S. uber-religious. By the way, nonreligious societies have a pretty bad track record (Soviets, North Koreans, Nazis, etc.). J. P. Harrison  . " ," by Gerbrand Ceder and Kristin Persson [World Changing Ideas], incorrectly spelled the name of Stefano Curtarolo of Duke University. " ," by Rachel Feltman [Advances], refers to screwworms as worms. Screwworms are flies. This article was originally published with the title "Letters" in Scientific American  310, 4, 8-10 (April 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0414-8 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.