Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Adults hang on to useless information, which impedes learning Kids are wildly better than adults at most types of learning--most famously, new languages. One reason may be that adults' brains are "full," in a way. Creating memories relies in part on the destruction of old memories, and recent research finds that adults have high levels of a protein that prevents such forgetting. Whenever we learn something, brain cells become wired together with new synapses, the connections between neurons that enable communication. When a memory fades, those synapses weaken. Researchers led by Joe Tsien, a neuroscientist at the Medical College of Georgia, genetically engineered mice to have high levels of NR2A, part of a receptor on the surface of some neurons that regulates the flow of chemicals such as magnesium and calcium in and out of a cell. NR2A is known to be more prevalent in the brains of mammals as they age. The engineered mice, though young, had adult levels of NR2A, and they showed some difficulty forming long-term memories. More dramatically, their brains could barely weaken their synapses, a process that allows the loss of useless information in favor of more recent data. A similar process may govern short-term memories as well. When you hear a friend ask for coffee, the details of her order don't just slip away in your mind--your brain must produce a protein that actively destroys the synapses encoding that short-term memory, according to a 2010 paper in . Much psychological research supports the idea that forgetting is essential to memory and emotional health [see " ," by Ingrid Wickelgren; Scientific American Mind, January/February 2012]. Tsien's new work, published January 8 in , suggests that older brains hold on to their connections more dearly--which helps to explain why learning is more laborious as we age and why memory trouble later in life so often involves the accidental recall of outdated information.   Try to block out all thoughts of a certain memory.  Try to forget by substituting the unwanted memory with a more desired one. This article was originally published with the title "Forgetting Is Harder for Older Brains" in SA Mind 24, 2, 8 (May 2013) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0513-8a 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.