Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Do we live in a higher being's computer? Advanced research may tell us What if this life is just a computer simulation running on some intellectually superior alien's console? Something about this idea is tantalizing to people (evidenced by the success of The Matrix films) and has special appeal for our readers. It's hooked physicists, philosophers, computer scientists and engineers, too, as author Anil Ananthaswamy writes in this edition's cover feature [" "]. What is it, exactly, that is so enticing about this possibility? The fear that we are mere puppets of a more advanced species? Or perhaps it's the calm that comes from the idea that none of this is real anyway. Examining the nature of our own reality, indeed whether we have a reality, is the most "meta" branch of physics. In more satisfying endeavors, journalist Daniel Garisto reviews the long history of the search for black holes, whose champions were awarded this year's Nobel Prize in Physics [" "]. One recipient, physicist Andrea Ghez, pushed her fellow astronomers and technicians tirelessly, despite doubt from the field, as her colleague Hilton Lewis describes in this issue's opinion section [" "]. Sometimes we have to fight for the realities we believe in. This article was originally published with the title "Are We Real? And Other Questions of Physics" in SA Space & Physics 3, 6,  (December 2020) Andrea Gawrylewski is the collections editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.