Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue With a vaccine in limited availability, many still need medicines to keep the virus at bay I'm sure I wasn't alone when I breathed a sigh of relief at the much ballyhooed arrival of COVID-19 vaccines at the end of 2020. We're in the midst of a dark and grief-stricken pandemic winter, and the sooner the vaccine gets us to herd immunity--and, pray, a semblance of normalcy--the better. But the well-worn trope that life is a journey, and not a destination, has an epidemiological application as well. As of this writing, the U.S. just suffered a record-breaking day of thousands of fatalities caused by the novel coronavirus. So in the interim months while most Americans wait their chance to be vaccinated, our goal certainly must be to minimize deaths from COVID-19. In this issue's cover story, Charles Schmidt takes a comprehensive look at the latest developments in clinical treatments for COVID-19 infection, many of which still need research to bolster their effectiveness (see " "). Elsewhere on the virus beat, restrictions that have been implemented to combat the coronavirus are having a drastic impact on flu and cold rates across the globe, offering up some telling evidence for public health researchers (see " "). The science of viruses and human illness is ever evolving. In the case of the global pandemic, the question isn't when will we arrive at the end but how. This article was originally published with the title "The Remaining COVID-19 Journey" in SA Health & Medicine 3, 1,  (February 2021) Andrea Gawrylewski is the collections editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 5 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 7 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.