Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Recommendations from by Rob Brotherton Bloomsbury Sigma, 2015 (($19.99)) In this investigation of the psychology behind conspiracy theories, psychologist Brotherton explores how different people can reach wildly divergent conclusions about reality. He casts doubt on the assumption that far-fetched beliefs are reserved for the simple-minded or the exceedingly paranoid. "We are all natural-born conspiracy theorists," Brotherton writes. He delves into the nature of belief to illustrate the ways that our susceptibility to tall tales is related to other natural tendencies, such as our inclination to arrange random data points into a seemingly meaningful pattern and our propensity to ascribe intentions behind sometimes random events. Although we like to think our judgments are based on evidence, Brotherton reveals that a host of psychological factors come into play whenever we choose what to believe. This article was originally published with the title "Book Review: Suspicious Minds" in Scientific American  313, 5, 74 (November 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1115-74c Maria is very excited to be working as a AAAS Mass Media Fellow for Scientific American this summer. She's a double major in physics and creative writing, and hopes to pursue a Master's degree in science writing after graduation. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.