Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor on no-till Farming, spacetime triangles and dancing animals In " " David R. Huggins and John P. Reganold argue for no-till farming as a more sustainable alternative to plow-based agriculture and describe how herbicide use has enabled growers to effectively practice no-till on a commercial scale. I cannot believe that anyone other than the herbicide manufacturers is seriously proposing that flooding the earth with lethal chemicals is any solution to the problems of agriculture. Their effect on humans and other animals is known, and their effect on soil and groundwater is potentially disastrous (even if the Environmental Protection Agency gives out assurances about the latter). Producing enough food to feed the world's population without harming the earth is a hard question; this is certainly not the answer. Louise Tremblay Cole Galt, Calif. THE AUTHORS REPLY In " ," Jan Ambjorn, Jerzy Jurkiewicz and Renate Loll describe how, in looking to reconcile quantum theory with Einstein's general theory of relativity, they developed a new approach to quantum gravity called causal dynamical triangulations. In this approach, on the smallest scales spacetime has only two dimensions (approximated as a series of triangles), but on larger scales it smoothly transforms to three, then four dimensions (approximated as the triangles constructing curved shapes). Could this fact mean that quantum mechanics would apply only to particles that experience less than four dimensions and that relativity would apply only to the four-dimensional universe? If so, there would seem to be no point in looking for a mathematical framework that can join these two pillars of physics. Howard Wolowitz via e-mail Ambjorn, Jurkiewicz and Loll state that "space keeps its overall form as time advances; it cannot break up into disconnected pieces." How, then, is the expansion of the universe explained by the geometric spacetime structures they describe? Perhaps new pieces keep getting created in between and push away the others? Fuat Bahadir Omaha, Neb THE AUTHORS REPLY: I disagree with Steven Brown and Lawrence M. Parsons's assertion in " " that humans are the only species that can dance or display rhythm. Other species are quite capable of displaying rhythm. Horses performing dressage, for instance, are accompanied by music. And parrots and other birds move to music. (A simple Google search for "animal dancing" returns many videos of animals exhibiting rhythmic movement as well.) Although one can argue that these animals are displaying learned behaviors, they must have a predisposition for rhythmic movement. Dennis Carrasquillo via e-mai THE AUTHORS REPLY: This article was originally published with the title "No-Till Farming Spacetime Triangles Dancing Animals" in Scientific American  299, 5, 12-14 (November 2008) 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.