Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue 12 ideas for new companies that probably won't exist--but should These days--have you noticed?--it's not enough for companies in the digital economy to become behemoths astride the world. They've begun growing tentacles into . The idea is to combine complementary perks of two companies, adding value to your subscriptions. Making it less likely you'll choose a competitor. That's why T-Mobile recently partnered with Netflix (T-Mobile subscribers get a free Netflix subscription), Netflix partnered with Comcast (you pay for Netflix as part of your Comcast bill), Amazon partnered with Best Buy to develop television sets (if you buy your TV at Best Buy, you get Amazon Fire technology built in), and Chevrolet partnered with Shell (you pay for gas at Shell stations with a few taps on your dashboard screen). All good, right? Who doesn't like greater convenience and more free services? Of course, there could be a darker side to this kind of conglomeration, too: many companies already collect insane amounts of data about you and your behavior, and the bigger the company, the more data it'll have. But never mind all that. Merge-o-mania is under way, and nothing's going to stop it. We may as well get used to it. In fact, we may as well have some fun with it--by imagining some future ventures that at least hold some entertainment value. Surely, it won't be long before we are reading about joint enterprises like these: Okay, okay. In the real world, most of these ideas will never come to pass. But we can always dream, can't we? This article was originally published with the title "The Next Round of Merger Mania" in Scientific American  319, 1, 26 (July 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0718-26 David Pogue is the anchor columnist for Yahoo Tech and host of several miniseries on PBS. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.