Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue For COVID-19, climate, dinosaurs, and more, we're seeing how science works The heroes of the COVID-19 pandemic are legion: nurses, doctors and others who care for the sick; epidemiologists and public health experts who track the disease and offer clear lifesaving guidance; and everyone who masks up and avoids crowds and protects their own health and the health of their communities. And around the world many scientists are working practically nonstop to understand the virus, how it spreads and what it does to the body. We learned more about the immune system in 2020 than in any year in history. Akiko Iwasaki heads one of the labs leading the global effort to save people from COVID-19. She and grad student Patrick Wong and how that knowledge might lead to new treatments. They describe how their team took on the urgent challenge and how the process of science changed in 2020. Understanding the process of science can protect people against misinformation--or at least we hope so. One of the outrageous myths about the pandemic is that the death toll is exaggerated. It's not. More than a quarter of a million people in the U.S. have died of COVID-19 as of November. Journalist Christie Aschwanden in the U.S. One of the most intriguing stages in the process of science is noticing when something is ... weird. Astronomers using new tools to see parts of space that had been shrouded by dust have observed that galaxy clusters formed much faster than anyone expected and that they seem to be too big for our universe. Grad student Arianna S. Long recounts the excitement of rethinking the time line of the early universe and how any unusual discovery is first assumed to be a software bug before it is accepted. Turn . We're in a great age of dinosaur discoveries. Starting , fossil experts Matthew A. Brown and Adam D. Marsh show how much has been learned about , our cover Dino Star, since it appeared in the film in 1993. They that paleontology is more tedious and less glamorous than how it's depicted in movies, but understanding the bodies and habitats and behaviors of a 183-million-year-old dinosaur is the next best thing to bringing it back to life. Some data are harder to gather than others. To understand the water cycle that sustains billions of people, mountain hydrologist Walter Immerzeel and his colleagues camp at 5,300 meters elevation (about 17,400 feet) and go higher to set up monitoring stations that have been twisted by winds and knocked over by avalanches. As he reports , climate change is disrupting ice melt, monsoons and river flows, and the consequences could be catastrophic. Evolutionarily, we are all well-functioning cellular civilizations, . Multicellularity has a lot of advantages, and it has led to exquisite cooperation. But when some cells cheat, they can threaten the entire organism. Thinking of cancer cells as cheaters has led to new approaches to treatment. When things get tumultuous on our planet, it's a nice escape to look at another one. The Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter has been photographing the Red Planet for 15 years now, and . They reveal that Mars has dust devils, landslides and asteroid impacts just like Earth does. All of us at wish you a Happy New Year. We hope your 2021 is healthy and full of pleasant discoveries. And may science keep showing us more ways to save lives. This article was originally published with the title "How Science Works" in Scientific American  324, 1, 4 (January 2021) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0121-4 Laura Helmuth is editor in chief of . Follow her on Twitter @laurahelmuth 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.