Read Our Latest Issue Scientists remind policy makers that CO2 pollution must end--and soon On July 10 in Paris a gathering of nearly 2,000 scientists and academics reaffirmed what most climate scientists have been saying for decades: The rises with every day of delay and must be the goal for this century. Such was the outcome of the held in Paris from July 7-10 by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, better known by its acronym, UNESCO, and meant to advise the upcoming international negotiations to curb global warming in Paris this December. The dangers include at an unknown rate, more downpours, heat waves, wildfires and droughts as well as the loss of ice everywhere, among other challenges. To avoid global warming of as much as 4 degrees Celsius by the end of the century, the scientists suggested civilization has a total budget of 900 billion metric tons of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere, and the world has already added roughly 592 billion metric tons since 1780 Nobel laureate economist Joseph Stiglitz of Columbia University suggested at the conference that the world has already missed an opportunity during the Great Recession to start the necessary shift to a low-carbon energy system by neglecting to invest in more climate-friendly energy infrastructure, which would have both stimulated the global economy and reduced income inequality. He --not the spotty global cap-and-trade program presently in effect--to drive this shift, along with cross-border carbon tariffs for laggard nations. This rise in carbon taxes could then be used to reduce other taxes, which could mean low or even negative costs to countries. "This reflects the basic economic principle: that it's better to tax bad things than good things," he said. The scientists also laid out in their that , affecting the poor most directly in the form of extreme weather. By 2050, current greenhouse gas emissions of roughly 40 billion metric tons per year will need to drop by at least 40 percent. And by the end of the 21st century, "greenhouse gas emissions must be zero, or even negative." In fact, all current scenarios to meet such goals require . The leading candidates for that job are plants and rocks, both of which have been absorbing CO2 via photosynthesis and chemical reactions with rain, respectively, for geologic eons, albeit slowly. Burning plants--or biomass, as scientists like to call them--in a power plant outfitted with devices to capture CO2 and bury it could potentially than they emit, as could and other technologies designed for that purpose. There are also dreams of vast algae farms in the ocean, fed concentrated CO2 and producing a carbon-negative fuel. But a (CCS) technology is like nuclear: big, cumbersome and expensive. In addition, unlike a nuclear power plant, the electricity such "clean coal" produces is not cheap and it has to produce more of it to run all the CCS equipment. Adding biomass to the mix puts climate goals in competition with food production for hungry stomachs as well as space for noncrop plants and wild animals, in addition to requiring yet more use of fossil fuels to produce the nitrogen fertilizer needed to grow all these plants. The argument against CCS is strong. Critics, however, often overlook the fact that making steel and making cement--the fundamental substrates of all power plants, whether wind turbines and solar rooftops or new nuclear--spew copious CO2, as does making the fertilizer that has made more than seven billion humans on the planet today possible. If the goal is zero- or negative emissions, . The to do so is CCS. In Paris Hans Joachim Schellnhuber, a climate physicist and chair of the German Advisory Council on Global Change, called for "an induced implosion of the carbon economy" over the next few decades, a shift he compared with efforts to end slavery in the last few decades of the 19th century. Without such a , there is "not the slightest chance of avoiding dangerous, maybe disastrous climate change." David Biello is a contributing editor at . May 9, 2013 May 28, 2015  --  David Biello April 8, 2013 Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.