Read Our Latest Issue Every month, SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN--the longest-running magazine in the U.S. and an authoritative voice in science, technology and innovation--provides insight into scientific topics that affect our daily lives and capture our imagination, establishing the vital bridge between science and public policy.   This month, examines some of the promising medical devices in development.   or help to manage their diabetes can provide patients and doctors immediate data to better plan treatment options. * ; early results suggest that nanoparticles can pinpoint breast cancer tumors 100 times smaller than those seen in mammography studies. * . The success of the first clinical studies and the speed at which technology is improving suggest that retinal implants could be more widely available in just a few years.   the bill currently gives $4.9 billion annually in automatic payments to farmers of commodity crops, driving down the price of corn and corn-based products. Since these are common staples in many processed foods, unhealthy dietary options are cheaper than much healthier fruit and vegetable options. .   has been developing defenses against drug treatment for decades, which has caused concern that it might become untreatable. . Untreated gonorrhea can cause widespread organ damage, pelvic inflammatory disease and infertility.   . Present-day weather forecasting technologies only provide about 14 minutes of warning prior to the arrival of an extreme weather event, such as the 2011 Joplin, Mo., tornado. , such as in the cases of the planned National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration low Earth orbit satellites and the increased power of supercomputers in analyzing recoded data. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.