Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Modeling the physics of bird jumping is helping engineers make more mobile machines Picture a pigeon perched on a telephone wire. Ready for takeoff, it raises its wings, springs into the air and flaps away, perhaps with the intention of leaving its calling card on your car's windshield. This series of actions is so commonplace that you probably do not pay it much attention. But University of Manchester biomechanical engineer Ben Parslew does. He is trying to design robots that can jump like birds. Most conventional robots roll around on wheels, constraining mobility. There is a need for more agile robots that "can jump over obstacles or debris in cluttered environments," Parslew says. To design such a machine, he turned to nature: "Birds are really good jumpers," he notes. The trouble is, when birds start to take off, they lean so far forward that, according to the rules of physics, they should tip over and fall onto their beaks. Yet that does not happen. Parslew and his team used computer modeling to discover how birds avoid this fate. They discovered that birds rotate their bodies slightly backward while accelerating into a jump. They also have flexible leg and toe joints, which prevent them from taking off briefly and immediately crashing into the ground. The results were published last October in . Parslew thinks engineers can use this information to design robots that can not only jump well but also launch into flight more efficiently. Most human-engineered flying machines require either long runways (think: airplanes) or flat, stable surfaces (think: helicopters or drones) for takeoff. Either way, they take a while to overcome gravity and gain elevation. University of Southern California biomechanist Michael Habib, who was not involved in the study, says springs and levers enable more rapid acceleration than wheels and axles do. And many animals are masters of springs and levers. "A house cat will beat a Lamborghini Diablo off the line for the first 100 feet," he says. While the car has to rev up, the feline catapults itself into a run. The same principle underlies how birds initiate flight. "If you can understand how that works," Habib adds, "you can build a robot that's good at running around and good at flying, and it will also be good at taking off suddenly in all kinds of conditions and landing on a dime." Parslew is now designing such a robot, as an alternative to wheeled rovers for exploring other planets. This article was originally published with the title "Hop to It" in Scientific American  320, 2, 16 (February 2019) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0219-16b Jason G. Goldman is a science journalist based in Los Angeles. He has written about animal behavior, wildlife biology, conservation, and ecology for , magazine, the , the , the BBC, magazine, and elsewhere. He contributes to 's "60-Second Science" podcast, and is co-editor of (Yale University Press). He enjoys sharing his wildlife knowledge on television and on the radio, and often speaks to the public about wildlife and science communication. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.