Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The CDC reports that spraying a controversial insecticide and applying larvicide may be best tools for combating local Zika Aerial spraying of the insecticide naled, followed by a product that targets mosquitoes when they are in the larval stage, may be responsible for a sharp drop in Aedes aegypti mosquitoes in a part of Miami where local transmission of the Zika virus was first found, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reported Friday. CDC Director Dr. Tom Frieden said the apparent success of the combination in the Miami neighborhood of Wynwood may represent a new standard of Aedes aegypti mosquitoes. "It appears that the aerial application of this one-two punch has the ability to rapidly interrupt transmission," Frieden said during a media conference Friday. "The findings are quite striking," he added. "Those who've worked in the field of arbovirology and control of diseases spread by Aedes aegypti and have looked carefully at this data are struck that we haven't seen similar control in other diseases spread by this particular mosquito species." Aedes aegypti are extremely difficult to control. The females, which need a blood meal to procreate, prefer to bite humans. As a result, they live close to people, in or around homes. They need only small amounts of water to lay their eggs--as little as the amount that a discarded bottle cap could hold--which adds to the difficulty of getting rid of this species. The bugs are to some of the chemicals that have been used against them in the past, which is why public health officials turned to the combination of naled and a biological product called Bacillus thuringiensis subspecies israelensis--Bti--that kills larvae. Naled alone didn't appear to knock down the mosquito populations as successfully, Frieden said. It was tried in a different part of the city. The CDC's report noted that local hospital admission records were checked to see if people came in complaining of respiratory problems or skin rashes followed spraying of the chemicals. There was no evidence that happened. A number of protesters in Miami objected to the spraying. And earlier, Puerto Rico to use this approach there over public objections. Duane Gubler, an expert in mosquito transmitted diseases, was cautious about interpreting the results, saying several methods of mosquito control were used in the Wynwood neighborhood, and it's not clear the drop in mosquitoes can be attributed to the aerial spraying. A former head of the CDC's dengue branch in Puerto Rico, Gubler had been skeptical of the aerial spraying plan before the work was undertaken. Helen Branswell is STAT's infectious diseases and public health reporter. She comes from the Canadian Press, where she was the medical reporter for the past 15 years. Helen cut her infectious diseases teeth during Toronto's SARS outbreak in 2003 and spent the summer of 2004 embedded at the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In 2010-11 she was a Nieman Global Health Fellow at Harvard, where she focused on polio eradication. Warning: Helen asks lots of questions. Credit: Nick Higgins STAT delivers fast, deep, and tough-minded journalism. We take you inside science labs and hospitals, biotech boardrooms, and political backrooms. We dissect crucial discoveries. We examine controversies and puncture hype. We hold individuals and institutions accountable. We introduce you to the power brokers and personalities who are driving a revolution in human health. These are the stories that matter to us all. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.