After patenting the telephone, the famous inventor turned his attention to giant tetrahedral kites capable of lifting people into the air Leslie Nemo was formerly an editorial intern for . Leslie Nemo was formerly an editorial intern for . When he was 29 years old, Alexander Graham Bell patented the telephone--a claim that is reportedly one of the in the U.S. Patent Office. Not long after, the young inventor lost interest in the device and put his growing wealth toward other pursuits--such as giant kites capable of lifting people off the ground. "It is fortunate for those interested in aeronautics and the exploration of the air that Professor Alexander Graham Bell has joined the band of experimenters and is ," wrote meteorologist Henry Helm Clayton, one of Bell's admirers, in 1903. The goal of flying people on kites was hundreds of years old. But the late 19th- and early 20th-century work evolved directly into the planes we have today. A crucial step in the Wright brothers' first successful powered flight in 1903 depended on their realization that as the craft flew. Bell and his team, called the Aerial Experiment Association, ultimately focused their kite designs on tetrahedrons, or pyramids made of four triangles, and biplane structures, several of which used red silk. When he died, Bell's coffin was lined with the red silk. Circular kite composed of smaller tetrahedral shapes that was built by Bell and his team. The triangular design helped the researchers disprove skeptics who thought kites composed of many identical structures could ever lift someone off the ground. Bell kite composed of triangular sections. The original rectangular box kites needed internal bracing to keep their shape while flying, which added dead weight. Bell's idea to use the stronger, self-bracing triangle shape made for durable but light kites. Alexander Graham Bell and his wife Mabel Bell kissing through a kite structure. Mabel Bell was integral to her husband's work. She the Aerial Experiment Association. She even sold a home she owned to front the costs of putting the group together. Alexander Graham Bell's designs for tetrahedral kites, which grew large enough to hold a human aloft. One of his first passengers, Lieutenant Thomas Selfridge, later became the when working with the Wright brothers. Tetrahedral kite. Unlike traditional rectangular box kites, Bell's tetrahedral shape could make increasingly larger structures, such as this 64-celled model. Aggregated rectangles increased kite weight faster than they expanded wing surface area. Tetrahedrons kept the ratio nearly constant. One of Bell's tetrahedral kites, towed on water. With kites, taking off and landing, particularly with people onboard, were difficult parts of the flying process. Bell's team and launched a series of kites-- I, II and III--this way. Bell team kite made of triangular cells. The researchers moved on from triangular to tetrahedral kites because of the design hurdle seen here. Triangle-based kites had to be arranged in two sections connected by wood--deadweight that tetrahedral designs avoided. Relatively small tetrahedral kite in flight. The boom in kite innovation and subsequent engine-powered flight led to the founding of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics in 1915. The agency to NASA in 1958. Onlookers watch a flight. Early flight researchers had rocky relationships with the public and press--a theme that extended to Robert H. Goddard, the inventor of the liquid-fueled rocket. Goddard first proposed launching such a rocket to the moon in 1920, which from newspapers. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Sign up for 's free newsletters. Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.