Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world As of January 1, California retailers are prohibited from selling showerheads, toilets, faucets and appliances that do not pass new efficiency standards for reducing water use. An eight-year-long expansion project of the Panama Canal is scheduled for completion early this year. The added width will allow larger ships to pass through and accommodate twice the volume of traffic. Roboticists in Zurich debuted an autonomous robot that lays bricks in preprogrammed structures. Its inventors suggest the bot could become a fixture at construction sites. The world's largest clinical trial is now under way. It will monitor 11,000 patients for as long as 12 years to investigate whether taking aspirin daily stops the recurrence of some cancers, including stomach and breast cancer. This month Volkswagen will begin to recall at least 11 million diesel cars that emit more pollutants than regulations permit. The company is offering cash to owners in the U.S. market. On an island off the state of Victoria, government-approved sheepdogs now protect wild penguins from preying foxes. A new trial will see if the canines can do the same for dwindling numbers of bandicoots. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  314, 1, 20 (January 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0116-20 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.