Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The move would release millions of dollars for response WASHINGTON--The White House's on combating the opioid epidemic has recommended that President Trump declare a federal state of emergency to address the crisis, a potentially significant step for an administration that has repeatedly pledged to take steps to ease the epidemic. "The first and most urgent recommendation of this Commission is direct and completely within your control. Declare a national emergency under either the Public Health Service Act or the Stafford Act," the committee wrote in an released Monday. The declaration would effectively nationalize a move that has already taken place in numerous states. Governors in Florida, Arizona, and Maryland have previously declared states of emergency, granting those governments access to millions of dollars and, in some cases, regulatory leeway in administering their responses. In a statement, the White House said it would "immediately begin reviewing" the commission's interim recommendations. The commission's other interim recommendations included: Administration figures involved in health and drug policy issues, like and , have also played a visible role in conversations about the opioid crisis. STAT delivers fast, deep, and tough-minded journalism. We take you inside science labs and hospitals, biotech boardrooms, and political backrooms. We dissect crucial discoveries. We examine controversies and puncture hype. We hold individuals and institutions accountable. We introduce you to the power brokers and personalities who are driving a revolution in human health. These are the stories that matter to us all. July 13, 2017  --  Dina Fine Maron June 14, 2017  --  Dina Fine Maron October 14, 2016  --  Dina Fine Maron May 10, 2016  --  Maia Szalavitz Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.