Read Our Latest Issue "A microwave oven cooks food because the water molecules inside it absorb
the microwave radiation and thereby heat up and heat the surrounding food.
Microwave radiation will similarly heat up skin and other body parts. In
fact, people stationed at big microwave towers in cold climates used to
stand in front of the microwave generators in order to warm themselves. The
radiation is harmful mostly to the parts of the body that cannot conduct the
heat away very effectively---the eyes especially. I think that heat transfer
could explain why one sometimes hears about people (fast-food workers, for
instance) getting headaches when exposed to leaking microwave ovens." David E. Hintenlang, associate professor nuclear and radiological engineering
at the University of Florida at Gainesville, adds some further details: "Microwave ovens cook food by generating intermolecular friction between the
molecules of the food. The microwaves cause water molecules to vibrate; the
increased friction between the molecules results in heat. Microwaves could
affect your tissue in a similar way if they were able to escape from the
microwave oven. Modern microwave ovens are designed to allow essentially no
leakage of microwaves, however. The only time for concern would be if the
door is broken or damaged, in which case the oven should not be used. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.