Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Up to 200 times farther... This cloud has nothing to do with the weather. It's a cloud of snot, and when propelled by a sneeze, it can carry droplets 200 times farther than experts previously thought, according to research published in the . After filming people coughing and sneezing at high speed, mathematicians and engineers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology ran mathematical models and simulations to investigate the cloud's role. Approaching the violent respiratory event from a fluid mechanics perspective, the researchers found that some previous assumptions about sneezes were wrong. The largest mucus and spittle particles, for example, do not travel the farthest, even though that is what momentum would predict. Unexpectedly, the tiniest droplets all interact with the gas instead of operating individually. Caught up in the cloud, they behave more like a whiff of smoke than the spray of a garden hose. As a result, whereas the large droplets travel up to four feet, the small droplets can reach eight feet. This finding may be fundamental to our ability to control the spread of disease. A gaseous cloud of hitchhiking microbes could travel far enough to reach ventilation units, meaning its dispersal potential is much greater than had been assumed. The work could help researchers estimate the disease-spreading potential of various air conditioners and map how pathogens may ultimately float around an office, airplane or home. This article was originally published with the title "Know the Jargon" in Scientific American  311, 1, 18 (July 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0714-18a Rachel Nuwer is a freelance journalist and author of (Da Capo Press, 2018). She lives in Brooklyn, N.Y. Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.