Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Five questions are answered about a promising yet problematic and unproved use for an antimalarial drug , and his wife was hospitalized, after taking a form of chloroquine, which . The couple decided to self-medicate with chloroquine phosphate, which they had on hand to kill parasites in their fish, after hearing the Dr. Anthony Fauci, head of NIH's National Institute for Allergies and Infectious Diseases, quickly corrected the statement, explaining that were based on anecdotes and not a controlled clinical trial. who specializes in discovery and development of antiviral drugs, and I have been actively working on coronaviruses for seven years. However, because I am a scientist and I deal in facts and evidence-based medicine, I am concerned about the sweeping statements the president has been making regarding the use of chloroquine or the closely related hydroxychloroquine, both antimalarial drugs, as cures for COVID-19. So let's examine the facts. These are both FDA-approved antimalarial drugs that have been in use for many years. Chloroquine was originally developed in 1934 at the pharmaceutical company Bayer and used in World War II to prevent malaria. Although the FDA has not approved its use for these conditions, both to treat rheumatoid arthritis and lupus. After the initial outbreak of MERS in 2012, scientists conducted random screens of thousands of approved drugs to identify one that might block MERS infection. , showed the ability to from infecting cells in vitro. But these drugs were not extensively pursued because ultimately they did not show enough activity to be considered further. When the new coronavirus appeared, many drugs that had shown some initial promise against the related coronaviruses MERS and SARS were at the top of the list as worthy of further evaluation as possible treatments. So the science is real, and a number of and testing them in clinical trials in the U.S.,  . But so far, there is no consensus about whether the drugs are safe and effective for treating COVID-19, as it is still very early in the testing process. It is still unclear how the chloroquines (or any antimalarial drug) would work against COVID-19, which is a virus. that are spread by mosquitoes, whereas . Viral infections and parasitic infections are very different, and so scientists wouldn't expect what works for one to work for the other. It has been suggested that the chloroquines can change the , thereby preventing the virus from infecting it. It's also possible chloroquines help . tested hydroxychloroquine in combination with an antibacterial drug (azithromycin), which worked better to stop the spread of the infection than hydroxychloroquine alone. However it's only one preliminary study that was done on a limited test group. To my knowledge, no other antimalarial drugs have shown any meaningful activity against treating coronaviruses. However, another potential drug has risen to the forefront. Remdesivir, developed by Gilead Pharmaceuticals, seems to be highly effective at preventing viruses--including , and --from replicating. In late February the a clinical trial for Remdesivir. And this month of the drug in medical centers in Asia. Absolutely not. Chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine have not been appropriately evaluated in controlled studies, not to mention that they have numerous and, in some cases, very . No one should take a drug that has not been proven to be safe and effective for a disease or condition for which it is not approved. There are just so many issues that can arise, from side effects to serious toxicity and death due to possible interactions with other medications and other underlying health conditions. So until these or any drugs have been shown to be effective against SARS-CoV-2 in clinical trials and have been approved by the FDA, no one should be self-medicating. Professor of Chemistry and Biochemistry and President-Elect of the International Society for Antiviral Research, University of Maryland, Baltimore County. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.