Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue This month, took a look at the squishy topic of password sharing. Once you've subscribed to some online service--Netflix, Spotify, or the New York Times, let's say--how strictly tied to is that name and password? All of the companies, of course, say they'll shut down your account if you go nuts with password sharing. But short of that, they offer a fascinating range of plans and restrictions. In general, the streaming video services prevent you from exceeding the "simultaneous logins" maximum using technological means--they simply block new people from logging in if others are already streaming video. On the other hand, paid news sites rely on your conscience not to distribute your passwords. Here are their monthly fees and details, all on one handy list: Original shows, plus studio movies and TV shows. $8 a month for one stream, $11 for two simultaneous streams, $14 for four. Technological. A third person can't watch if two already are. Current shows from ABC, Fox, and NBC; older ones from CBS; some original shows. $8 per month with ads or $12 per month without ads, for two simultaneous streams; $15 for unlimited streams within the same household three streams outside the house. Technological. TV channels over the Internet. $40 a month for two simultaneous streams, or $55 for five (three of which must be within the house). Technological. Original shows, recent studio movies. $15 a month for 3 simultaneous streams. Technological. Original shows, plus studio movies and TV shows. $11 a month for 3 simultaneous streams. Technological. Original shows, plus studio movies and TV shows. $9 a month, for 3 simultaneous streams. Technological. Ad-free music, no ads on YouTube videos, original shows for tweens and teens. $10 or a month 1 simultaneous logon, or $15 for 4 logons. CBS shows, both live and archived. $6 a month, or $10 without ads, for 2 simultaneous streams. Technological. TV channels from the Internet. $35 a month and up, for 2 simultaneous streams. Technological. TV channels from the Internet. $20 or $25 a month and up, for 1 or 3 . Technological. Live cable stations, plus on-demand TV and movies. $40 a month and up, for five simultaneous streams (some must be within the same household). Technological. Daily news and opinion. $16 a month for access to the Web site and apps (after introductory offer), for one person logged in at a time. Honor system. Daily news and opinion. Honor system. This article was originally published with the title "How Different Subscription Services Handle Password Sharing" in Scientific American  317, 6,  (December 2017) David Pogue is the anchor columnist for Yahoo Tech and host of several miniseries on PBS. Credit: Nick Higgins December 1, 2017  --  David Pogue Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.