Read Our Latest Issue Which of our posts did readers flock to this year? Stories about Lenin's embalming, war in space and more! It's near impossible to predict which stories will draw the most eyes, and this year was no different. The top 10 stories published in 2015--ranked by the number of overall page views--both confirmed our intuitions and surprised us, too. #10 For thousands of years humans have used embalming methods to preserve dead bodies. But nothing compares with Russia's 90-year experiment to preserve the body of Vladimir Lenin, communist revolutionary and founder of the Soviet Union #9 Three recent studies suggest we have no idea how unequal our society has become #8 From autonomous drones to emergent AI to digital genomes, this year's list from the World Economic Forum offers its latest glimpse of our fast-approaching technological future #7 Parents' traumatic experience may hamper their offspring's ability to bounce back from trauma #6 China, Russia and the U.S. are developing and testing controversial new capabilities to wage war in space despite their denial of such work #5 For 37 years Dean Ornish has been touting the benefits of low-fat, high-carbohydrate, vegetarian diets for preventing and reversing heart disease. But the research he cites to back up his claims is tenuous at best #4 From helpless damsel to powerful heroine, women are still hypersexualized #3 New research shows that although we perceive character traits like trustworthiness based on a person's facial expressions, our perceptions of abilities like strength are influenced by facial structure #2 A "vibrational" chemical bond predicted in the 1980s is demonstrated experimentally #1 HINT: Don't tell your kids they're smart. More than three decades of research shows that a focus on "process"--not on intelligence or ability--is key to success in school and in life 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.