Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the July 2015 issue of " ," by Bogdan A. Dobrescu and Don Lincoln, discusses the possible forms of dark matter. Could a potential explanation of dark matter not involve new particles? Could, say, gravity decrease with distance slightly less than described in Newton's laws, noticeable only on a scale of light-years? And have scientists tried to quantify this possibility in a way that could explain galaxies' rotational speed without dark matter? MARTIN LICKA  The universe is believed to have additional mass, which the article assumes exists in the form of unknown particles. Maybe the search shouldn't be limited to our own universe. We might be merely constrained to a subuniverse of and , whereas nearby similar subuniverses exist along a fifth axis of . A weak,balanced gravitational coupling between the subuniverses could create an increase in the apparent mass of our own structures, undetectable at small scales but significant at very large ones. DAVID L. KRIMM  . . . In " " [Skeptic], Michael Shermer credits the brain's rage circuitry to explain "why cops kill." But there's a more direct explanation: police can employ lethal force and are trained to use it by default to protect themselves rather than making the safety of the citizenry their highest priority. A partial solution is to equip and train police primarily with nonlethal weapons and require a prime directive that citizens' lives are to be preserved even at the risk of their own safety. Police who are driven to kill unarmed citizens through fear should find other employment. HARRY J. FOXWELL  . I am worried about Shermer's skepticism if it's his understanding that these killings of black men by police are a "rash" of incidents or that prejudice "to whatever extent ... still percolates in the minds of a few cops in a handful of pockets." What has always been the harshest, most feared reality for some can now be witnessed by all of us on television. Video cameras are the only new actors in these scenes--which happen all the time nationwide and, if no civilians are around, are still almost always covered up. LYNN WITHERINGTON  . . Washington Post . . In reporting on exploration below the West Antarctic Ice Sheet in " ," Douglas Fox refers to "extreme pressure" exerted on the water by the mass of the ice above the grounding zone. But does not hydrostatics dictate that the pressure of the water in this zone depends only on its depth? The ice above the water should have no influence on the pressure.  JOHN JAMESON  . . . " ," by Varun Sivaram, Samuel D. Stranks and Henry J. Snaith, discusses how perovskite could replace crystalline silicon in the manufacture of solar cells. Was it deliberate that the article avoided explaining what perovskite is? DONALD E. SANDS  . . . " ," by Tim Palucka [Advances], wrongly states that Germany engaged in a blitzkrieg of Stalingrad in 1941. It should have referred to Germany's invasion of the Soviet Union as whole, which began in 1941. The Battle of Stalingrad began in 1942. This article was originally published with the title "Letters" in Scientific American  313, 5, 8-10 (November 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1115-8 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.