Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Activating certain neurons may alleviate depression  of people with depression do not respond to antidepressant medication. For these patients, hope may come in the form of transcranial magnetic stimulation, or TMS, a technique that activates neurons by sending pulses of magnetic energy into the brain. Although researchers have been studying the effects of TMS on depression for more than 10 years, it has been largely viewed as an experimental procedure because of concerns about safety issues, such as seizures. Now psychiatrists at the University of Pennsylvania report successful results from the largest-ever trial of TMS, countering many critics' doubts. The team tested about 300 patients with major depression who had failed to respond to medication and found that those who received about 40 minutes of TMS daily for four weeks experienced significant symptomatic improvement. No major side effects were reported, although the technique is not recommended for anyone with a history of seizures. TMS delivers its neuron-activating magnetic field via small metallic coils attached to the scalp, which investigators can position to target specific brain areas. In this study, the team targeted a region of the prefrontal cortex previously shown to be less active in depressed subjects. Because TMS is both noninvasive and precise in aim, the technique readily lends itself to unusual research, from triggering ordinary people's inner mathematical savant to studying the root of religious experience (in its incarnation as the "God helmet" [see " ," by David Biello; , October/November 2007]). Although TMS is already available to patients in Australia and Canada, stricter regulations mean it could be several months to years before patients in the U.S. have access to the therapy, says John O'Reardon, lead author of the new study. He and other experts believe that eventually TMS will also help patients with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and Tourette's syndrome. This article was originally published with the title "A Magnetic Boost" in SA Mind 19, 2, 13 (April 2008) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0408-13a 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.