Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Is it safe to bogart that e-cig or even be in the same room with an e-cig bogarter? Is it safe to bogart that e-cig or even be in the same room with an e-cig bogarter? OK, in this post we're going to clue you in on some of the potential issues with electronic cigarettes or e-cigs, as they're diminutively known. But before we do, we need to get one thing straight: Smoking cigarettes . Per the Centers for Disease Control, smoking " , accounting for more than 480,000 deaths, or one of every five deaths, each year." Add to that the more than 16 million Americans who suffer from a smoking-related disease, and it's fairly clear anything that lowers the rate of cigarette smoking is going to improve our overall health. The numbers are somewhat encouraging. While , only . However, given that our population grew over that time, the net drop in American smokers -- 1965's 50 million smokers versus 2012's 42 million -- is only 8 million. That drop in the rate of smoking probably didn't just happen. The government and a host of nonprofits have waged a : ever-increasing taxes, a , and that promote a healthy lifestyle and warn of the health risks of smoking. (California in this fight.) And ever since 1966, Americans have not been able to purchase a pack of cigarettes free of a . Then there's the wide assortment of products to -- everything from to , . And more recently e-cigarettes. Although they were , electronic cigarettes didn't really come onto the scene until the past decade, appearing and spreading to other areas including Europe in 2006 and then the United States the following year. (See on the history of e-cigarettes.) These cigarette lookalikes basically consist of a cartridge, a battery and an LED light. When turned on, the e-cig heats up the liquid that is housed in the cartridge; this produces an aerosol mist or vapor, which the "smoker" inhales or "vapes," an alternate term that denotes the lack of combustion. The ingredients of the liquid vary, but generally include nicotine (though some are nicotine free), chemicals to vaporize the nicotine (like and vegetable glycerin), additives and flavoring. Since they are tobacco free, e-cigs are currently unregulated in the United States but that may change. Already cities like , , , and have restricted their use. And Utah, New Jersey and North Dakota have wherever smoking is prohibited. Other states and localities including and are considering restrictions as well. It is my impression that there's some confusion in how e-cigs are being marketed. In some cases they are being touted as a nicotine replacement product that smokers can use to eventually quit smoking altogether or (more likely to me) a . And I guess if you "got to" smoke (whatever that means) I suppose e-cigs are probably a lot less unhealthy than good, old-fashioned cigarettes. Given the in cigarettes, vaping is almost certainly less dangerous to your health. But don't be fooled into thinking that e-cigs are without risks or that you should now be able to vape to your heart's content. Or that they're plain healthy. First of all, nicotine is a drug and a at that, and a suggests that even inhaling the drug via either conventional cigarettes or e-cigs to heart disease. Also there is evidence that e-cigs deliver some toxic stuff of their own such as formaldehyde (a known carcinogen), (linked to cancer) and lead (a neurotoxin). Though the toxicant levels of e-cigs may be "9-450 times lower than in cigarette smoke," as suggests, levels of formaldehyde and have been found to be comparable to or higher than those found in conventional cigarettes.* , which are a , have also been found in e-cigarette vapors. A number of e-cig enthusiasts I have spoken to believe that the ban on smoking cigarettes in public places should not apply to e-cigs. And some are acting on that belief. I've even seen a woman confidently doing her e-cig thing on the subway in New York. Another in a restaurant. And why not? Electronic cigarettes don't burn and so there is no smoke. And no smoke means no . And no second-hand smoke means no health worries for the non-e-cig public who happen to be in the vicinity. Sounds reasonable and what a boon for nicotine addicts. Relegated, lo all these years, to standing outside in the freezing cold or blistering heat to get their fix and unable to inhale while in flight, now e-cig users can reenter conventional society. But is there really no second-hand "smoke"? Don't be so sure. A by Wolfgang Schober of the Bavarian Health and Food Safety Authority and colleagues published in the in December found that vaping worsened indoor air quality, specifically by increasing the concentration of nicotine, particulate matter, PAHs and aluminum -- compounds that have been linked to and among other health effects. The upshot? Probably won't be long before the nicotine-inhaling e-cig users of the world find themselves legislated back out into the cold to hang with their conventional nicotine-smoking addicts. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.