Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Asia aggressively builds nuclear power plants as the West withdraws Nuclear power is hot in China. The country is building 19 commercial reactors, including two of the largest ever assembled. Russia's state-owned engineering firm, Rosatom, is erecting 13 reactors in five countries. India is developing its own domestic supply chain. Meanwhile the U.S. is canceling reactors, leaving only four under construction. American maker Westinghouse, long the global front-runner, filed for bankruptcy in March. France, which for decades happily relied on atomic power, will turn to renewables to meet new electricity demand. Germany will shutter all its reactors by 2022. If China's progress holds, it will have more nuclear capacity than the U.S., today's leader, within a decade. The government helps companies get permits and obtain financing, two big hurdles in the West. Changing markets could shift alliances as well, as countries such as the United Arab Emirates sign deals with surging Russian and South Korean suppliers rather than fading American and European firms. Japan may be Asia's anomaly: because of the infamous Fukushima accident, it has scaled back plans. This article was originally published with the title "Reactors Reshuffled" in Scientific American  317, 2, 84 (August 2017) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0817-84 Mark Fischetti is a senior editor at . He covers all aspects of sustainability. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.