Read Our Latest Issue So why don't we act like it? Public trust of the scientific community in the United States is as strong as ever, according to a new poll just released today by the Pew Research Center, confirming . Thirty-eight percent of those polled in Pew's survey in the U.S. say that they have of trust in scientists to do what is right for the public. Those polled also place a lot of trust in scientific institutions as compared to others in the U.S. Pew's data show respondents only ranked the military as more trustworthy than scientific institutions, while ranking lower trust in others like the national government, news media and business leaders. That trust in science is of heightened importance right now, particularly in the U.S., where the novel coronavirus continues to spread and has now . With a , the public has been left on their own with the responsibility to follow guidance and advice provided by public health experts to control the spread of the virus. It's encouraging to see that multiple polls show the U.S. public and in and overseeing the virus response. Yet, regardless of the public's trust in science, the U.S. has the . This raises an important question: is public trust in science enough to drive actions at a scale sufficient to effectively combat a nationwide emergency like that of a pandemic? The answer seems to be "no." In some countries with far less trust in science (including Taiwan and South Korea, according to the new polling data from Pew), the novel coronavirus has been better contained. It is difficult to know exactly why Taiwan's and South Korea's responses seem to be more effective, and it is important to note that comparing coronavirus data among countries is difficult for multiple reasons. But something is different; Taiwan, for instance, has 23 million people, but has seen only . Taiwan attributes its effective response to in the country. Early recognition of mysterious pneumonia cases in China and suspicions that Beijing was not being transparent about them spurred Taiwan's government to act quickly. They setup , screened , put in place , required a , and implemented . Taiwan also has had no problem convincing people to wear masks given the recent memory of the havoc caused by the 2003 SARS outbreak. Of those polled in the Pew survey from Taiwan, only 17 percent of respondents said they had a lot of trust in scientists to do what is right for their country. Taiwan had the second lowest reported trust in scientists in the poll (behind South Korea at 14 percent). Among the countries polled in Pew's data, 59 percent of those polled in India said that they trust scientists a lot to do what is right for their country--more than any other country polled in the survey. India currently has and is predicted to overtake the U.S. as the nation worst-hit by the virus. A lockdown was imposed in India during March, but , with transmission occurring as people poured out of cities into rural areas. Low testing rates, poor social protections, and a fragile health care system also in the country. The U.S., India, South Korea and Taiwan are not the only cases where public trust in science does not match the number of coronavirus cases, deaths or infection rates of a country. Instead, each case seems more dependent on government response (and likely, in the case of Taiwan, a recent memory of the devastation a viral epidemic can cause). Just as with our response to climate change, individual actions do not seem to be . And if our government's response affects the spread of the coronavirus more than our individual actions, the U.S. may be in worse trouble than previously thought. While the U.S. public overall trusts the scientific community, . We at the Union of Concerned Scientists have now in decisions that affect public health and safety. On the federal government's response to the coronavirus specifically, we have seen , , and . This is all not to say that public trust in science or that wearing a mask when you leave your home are not important; they are both very important so please keep trusting in science and ! But if we are hoping that such trust in science will be enough to drive the huge collective actions needed to keep the novel coronavirus from spreading, I'm afraid such hope may be misplaced. What we need more than ever is a coordinated and effective science-based response from government leaders. The public trusts the science, but our leaders must too. We certainly do not have that at this moment. Jacob Carter is a research scientist for the Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists. Prior to joining UCS, Dr. Carter worked at the Environmental Protection Agency as an Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE) Postdoctoral Fellow. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.