Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue King Richard III's burial, high-speed train achievements, and more Every household--2.2 million in all--will receive its own seven-digit postal code this spring. Until now, many addresses were specified with just a name and neighborhood, which mixed up deliveries and misrouted ambulances Archaeologists will reinter the skeleton of Richard III--discovered underneath a parking lot in 2012--at Leicester Cathedral this month. After two years of study, they concluded that the king had a rich diet, endured a roundworm infection and probably died in battle from head wounds. Netflix comes to residents of the Land Down Under this spring. Solar Impulse, the solar-powered airplane that flew across the U.S. in 2013, will take off from Abu Dhabi early this month in an attempt to circumnavigate the world. The Large Hadron Collider revs back to life this month after a two-year hiatus for repairs and upgrades. Ground was broken in California on a yearsin-the-making highspeed train, which will carry passengers between San Francisco and Los Angeles in about 2.5 hours--half the time it takes by car. Estimated completion date: 2029. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  312, 3, 21 (March 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0315-21 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.