Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue In 2016 scientists made a discovery sure to usher in a new era of physics: for the first time, they detected --ripples in the fabric of space predicted by Albert Einstein 100 years ago. Meanwhile the Zika virus, after lying low for nearly 70 years, mounted an . Climate change aggravated social crises in the Middle East, contributing to a mass . covered all these events in print or on digital platforms. In this special collection, you'll find those stories and more. To choose the articles in this volume, my colleagues and I polled our editors for their favorite pieces and compiled the stories and events that drew the greatest attention of our readers and the world. We selected the most important news in science, of course, but also included entries that were particularly compelling reads, such as one that describes dramatic advances in treating cancer by inducing the and another that muses on whether we might . Science moves fast, and so, where needed, we have updated facts or added an editor's note highlighting major new developments. For example, just a few short months after we reported the detection of gravitational waves in February, physicists detected gravitational waves for the second time. The stories that follow cover the gamut from the to the , from technology that promises to tools capable of . If you read no other articles about science from 2016, read these. This article was originally published with the title "The Year in Science" in SA Special Editions 25, 5s, 1 (December 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamericansciencestories1216-1 Andrea Gawrylewski is the collections editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.