Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue     of "tiny backbone living in corrosive swamp" in "Short Takes" [Anti Gravity] to describe both a kind of carp and any member of the House ethics committee surely deserves at the least a tiny Pulitzer Prize for its succinctness, completeness and brevity.     by Madhusree Mukerjee [Insights], betrays an irony: India, a country with one of the oldest and deepest-rooted organized religions in history, is perhaps the first to successfully apply a purely secular solution to a problem that may be older than religion itself. Imagine if the U.S. surgeon general came up with this idea. I think the firestorm of revulsion from the religious right would overwhelm all the public health considerations. And yet in India, religious leaders became part of the solution. How sad that we have not made life better for our own sex workers because of belief systems infected with pride. I guess that is the contradiction of "scientific" America.     dedicated to educating the public about scientific and technological issues, you should not perpetuate misleading descriptions, as was the case in "Big Squeeze," by Mark Fischetti [Working Knowledge]. The article described how an airplane wing produces lift thus: "...because the wing top is curved, air streaming over it must travel farther and thus faster than air passing underneath the flat bottom." If so, how could a plane fly upside down with the flat surface on top and the curved surface on the bottom? In fact, if a winglike object, such as a flat plate, is inclined with respect to the airflow (relative wind), the air will travel much faster over the surface away from the wind and slower over the other surface, giving rise to a pressure differential. This difference is dependent on the wing's angle of attack (angle of the wing with respect to the relative wind) but not on one surface being more curved than the other. A better explanation of lift is: as a wing angled up with respect to the relative wind moves through a volume of air, it deflects downward a large amount of air above and below the wing. Thus, the wing exerts a downward force to accelerate this mass of air downward (Newton's second law). The air exerts an equal but opposite force upward on the wing (Newton's third law). This upward force by the deflected volume of air is the lift. (This force also produces drag.)  Department of Physics John Carroll University University Heights, Ohio       for Defeating Rotavirus," Roger I. Glass indicated that two rotavirus vaccines, RotaTeq and Rotarix, have recently proved highly effective in clinical trials and are soon to be marketed in a number of countries. The RotaShield rotavirus vaccine has also been shown to be highly effective in clinical trials; his discussion on RotaShield is related only to its withdrawal from the market in 1999. Now that new scientific evidence has demonstrated that RotaShield can be safely used in infants, BIOVIRx intends to bring RotaShield back to the market, subject to appropriate regulatory approvals. Our goal is to make it affordable, because we believe that is necessary for a rotavirus vaccine to have the greatest global impact on reducing morbidity and mortality.  President and CEO, BIOVIRx, Inc. Shoreview, Minn.   "Computing with Quantum Knots," by Graham P. Collins, is it possible to simulate a quantum computer on a conventional computer, at least in theory? If not, perhaps some of the difficulty in artificial intelligence is because biological systems have somehow discovered ways to use quantum effects.  God Touches Digital Ministry Madison, Wis.    "An Antibiotic Resistance Fighter," by Gary Stix, noted incorrectly that mice did not develop resistance to the antibiotic ciprofloxacin. The article should have stated that the bacterium Escherichia coli did not become resistant. It also remarked that blocking the cutting of the protein LexA might undermine "drug effectiveness" in other microbes besides E. coli. Rather preventing the clipping of LexA might undermine the evolution of drug resistance in other microbes. "Sharp Shooter," by Steven Ashley [Technicalities], stated that the APS sensor in the Sony R1 digital camera has a low signal-to-noise ratio. It has a high signal-to-noise ratio.  In "The Science behind Sudoku," by Jean-Paul Delahaye [June], the grid for puzzle e in the "Variations on a Theme" box should have included outlines for the domino pieces. Without the lines, the puzzle has two solutions. To find the correct version, go to ; visit that same site for extra puzzles and solutions to the grids in the article. (The address given in the article was incomplete.) In Ask the Experts, Stephen M. Roth's answer to the question "Why does lactic acid build up in muscles?" stated that high lactate levels increase acidity in the muscle cells. Though associated with this condition, they are not the cause. For a more in-depth explanation, see This article was originally published with the title "Letters to the Editors" in Scientific American  295, 2,  (August 2006) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0806-12 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.