Read Our Latest Issue Every month, SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN--the longest-running magazine in the U.S. and an authoritative voice in science, technology and innovation--provides insight into scientific topics that affect our daily lives and capture our imagination, establishing the vital bridge between science and public policy.   * Breakthroughs in science, engineering and technology are critical to our nation's competitive edge. , to weigh in on 14 science questions. SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN asked its readers and board of advisers to help score the responses from each candidate (out of a five-point scale: one being the lowest, and five being the highest). In general, Obama scored higher than Romney on nine of the questions, while Romney scored better on one question (pandemics and biosecurity).   * . Germany ensures its economic success via partnerships between research institutes and industrial manufacturers. President Barack Obama and Governor Mitt Romney have not spoken about pursuing a grander vision along those lines. Half of U.S. economic growth since World War II has come from advances in science and technology, such as the Pentagon's project that eventually became the Internet.  * . Sea ice and permafrost are melting faster than predicted. The effects of these changes include meltwater altering ocean circulation, melting permafrost releasing carbon dioxide and methane, and ice disappearing worldwide. Such feedbacks could themselves accelerate warming, alter weather by changing the jet stream, magnify insect infestations and spawn more and larger wildfires.  * according to Evan Charney of Duke University and William English of Harvard University. Research provides growing evidence that genetic influences on human behavior involve thousands of different genes. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.