Read Our Latest Issue A tiny solar cell doubles the efficiency of common photovoltaics' conversion of sunlight to electricity by capturing the energy from a broader spectrum of light. The specifics: a germanium wafer is spun at high speeds and subjected to various gases that encourage the growth of layers of semiconducting material such as gallium arsenide. "We have somewhere between 20 and 30 layers of semiconductor material," explains David Lillington, president of Spectrolab, Inc., which developed the new cell. The resulting layers in one single solar device respond to different spectra of light. The top layer, for example, captures the energy of blue light while the middle layer absorbs green and the bottom uses red. Such triple-junction solar cells are specially tuned to work with concentrated light, in this case the wattage of 240 suns. The resulting efficiency nearly doubles that of standard silicon solar cells, which hover at 22 percent. That gain requires, however, the use of light-concentrating devices, such as miniature plastic lenses and mirrors. The new solar cell achieved 40.7 percent efficiency under such concentrated light at the testing center at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory in Colorado. One cell of just 0.26685 square centimeter (or roughly 0.04 square inch) pumped out 2.6 watts of electricity when bathed at the maximum light concentration. "Every five minutes the spectrum of the sun changes," Kazmerski explains. So tests are conducted "under a simulator where everything stays constant." Even though installed cells would require concentrators, the fact that fewer cells can produce the same amount of power--and that similar cells are already widely produced--means this system could potentially generate electricity in the range of 8 to 10 cents per kilowatt-hour--roughly equal to consumer electricity prices today. "Eventually it's hoped that it will come down enough to rival the price of traditional energy although that is future tense," notes Dave Garlick, a spokesman for Spectrolab's parent company Boeing. "This could mean a significant increase in the penetration of solar power," says Clark Gellings, vice president of innovation at the Electric Power Research Institute, a think tank. "The real barrier was the cost of the device." Many utilities have already invested in solar, including giant solar farms in Portugal and China. In the U.S., Xcel Energy plans to build a relatively modest eight-megawatt solar power plant in Colorado next year using similar concentrated solar cells as well as other technology. "This is not a technology that is 10 years away," Kazmerski adds. "This is a technology that we are going to see out working next year." Nevertheless, the record-breaking solar cells are at least 12 months away from full-scale manufacturing, Lillington says. "Before we put this new cell into production it needs to go through a qualification process to make sure it can withstand the rigors of the environment." Of course, its Martian peers have lasted 28 months in that harsh, alien environment. And the triple-junction solar cell may not hold the efficiency record for long. "We are also looking at four-, five-, even six-junction solar cells," Lillington notes. "There are at least three or four different approaches to take the efficiency into the 45 percent range." And that means the price of energy harvested directly from the sun will continue to drop. David Biello is a contributing editor at . September 13, 2006  --  David Biello November 10, 2003  --  Sarah Graham March 29, 2002  --  Sarah Graham September 22, 2006  --  JR Minkel August 1, 2005  --  Steven Ashley Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.