Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A biologist aims to profile suspects from genetic material left at crime scenes NAME  TITLE  LOCATION  One of my main interests is in using DNA to predict appearance traits. I combine fundamental research on the genetics of human appearance with applied research such as forensic DNA phenotyping, which is using the prediction of appearance from DNA as a tool in police investigations. We were able to predict extreme height, which is those in the upper 3 percent, with an accuracy of 0.75, where 0.5 is random and 1 is a perfect indicator. The accuracy for human eye and hair color is much higher at 0.9, and chronological age--based on T cell receptors--is the same. But everything else we've looked at is actually much lower than our height accuracy. Skin color is almost certainly next. You can do this now to some degree, mostly by working with ancestry markers, but there are of course variations. Face shape, which would be the holy grail, is in the distant future--we've only found the first five genes, and the effects of those genes are very small. There must be hundreds of genes that affect the face. I do believe it's possible in the long term. What I didn't like about her work is that it mixed things that are possible--hair and eye color--with things we can't predict yet, like facial shape, and things we can't predict for certain, like skin color. For these traits she used her artistic skills, and they had nothing to do with science or genetics. This article was originally published with the title "The DNA Sketch Artist" in Scientific American  310, 2, 22 (February 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0214-22a 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.