Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world Cavers and scientists in the Mexican state of Oaxaca discovered that the world's ninth-largest known cave is deeper than previously thought. With a depth of 5,118 feet, it houses dozens of species not found anywhere else. Archaeologists discovered a tooth from an opossum-sized creature that once inhabited what is now Brazil. The oldest known mammal found in the region to date, it lived sometime between 87 million and 70 million years ago, when still roamed. Microsoft has begun installing computer servers on the seafloor near Scotland's northern islands as an alternative to data farms on land. The idea is that the water will create a cool environment for the servers. The oldest African baobab tree (roughly 2,500 years of age) died within the past decade, researchers found. Nine of the 13 oldest baobabs--all in Africa--have perished since 2005, possibly as a result of unprecedented climate change. The Chinese government announced it will take on a new role in monitoring scientific misconduct. Such cases, previously handled by institutions, will be maintained in a national database and could disqualify scientists from applying for certain research opportunities and jobs. Solar power is on the rise in India. In the first quarter of 2018, newly installed panels produced 3,269 megawatts. Solar power now accounts for 6.3 percent of India's total power output. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  319, 2, 23 (August 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0818-23 Maya Miller is an editorial intern for . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.