Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The recent discovery of gravitational waves emerging from the big bang may point a way forward Apart from the terrible weather hanging around from an unusually cold winter, the second week of March started like any other week. But then rumors started floating around in the cosmology community about an imminent announcement out of the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. The rumors spread to Facebook, Twitter and the blogosphere by the weekend. Details began to emerge. This was not any ordinary announcement but rather the kind that, if correct, would happen once per lifetime. It was something that most of us dreamed we could see only in a few decades if we were lucky, if at all. On Monday, March 17, 2014, BICEP-Keck collaboration, which operates an array of microwave telescopes located at the geographical South Pole, announced the discovery of patterns in the polarization of the cosmic microwave background that could have been generated in the early universe. If this interpretation of the observations is correct, it could confirm a 30-year-old prediction of the cosmic inflation theory: that the simplest models of inflation can generate an observable level of gravitational waves, comparable to density or temperature fluctuations in the early universe. It would also be our first direct evidence for the quantum nature of gravity, the most outstanding puzzle in theoretical physics over the past century. Yet in science, as in life, things are rarely as simple as they first appear. For example, the simple inflationary models that predict observable levels of gravitational waves also suggest that hints of these waves should have been seen in the temperature fluctuations observed by the European Space Agency's Planck satellite. But they were not! Furthermore, microwave emission from dust in our galaxy tends to be polarized, which could confuse BICEP-Keck observations, at least to some extent. What does all this mean for our holographic theory of the big bang? When it comes to the observations of the early universe, we are limited to a handful of (now seemingly contradictory) probes. The Planck team is expected to release additional data in October, and other teams will also weigh in soon. Reconstructing the first moments of the universe is difficult business. Only with time--and perhaps some luck--will we know how it all began. This article was originally published with the title "Whispers from Creation" in Scientific American  311, 2, 42 (August 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0814-42 is an assistant professor of physics and astronomy at the University of Waterloo and an associate faculty member in cosmology and gravitation at the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics. His research and teaching focus on astrophysics, cosmology and the physics of gravity. is a professor and former chair of physics and astronomy at the University of Waterloo and an affiliate faculty member at the Perimeter Institute. A past president of the Canadian Association of Physicists and winner of two teaching awards, his interests include black holes and quantum information. is a Ph.D. candidate at the Perimeter Institute and the University of Waterloo. She was born in Shiraz, Iran, and received her B.Sc. and M.Sc. in theoretical physics from Shiraz University in Iran. July 15, 2014  --  Niayesh Afshordi, Robert B. Mann and Razieh Pourhasan Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.