Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world A staggering 88 percent of adults viewed the total solar eclipse that swept across the continental U.S. in August, a national study found. At least 20 million traveled to see it, and many others watched it online. Seismologists say the soft soil under Mexico City, which was once the bottom of an ancient lake, exacerbated the effects of a magnitude 7.1 earthquake that killed hundreds of people in September. A U.K.-based Formula One racing team has built the "Baby Pod 20"--a container inspired by racing car technology for transporting babies more safely in ambulances. A children's emergency service is already using the pods. An animal-rights group settled a lawsuit with a British photographer over "selfies" supposedly taken with his camera by a crested macaque in Indonesia. The group claimed the copyrights belonged to the monkey. Researchers found that giant panda habitats have declined significantly since the species was first listed as endangered nearly 30 years ago. Although the iconic animal is now designated as merely "vulnerable," scientists are concerned about the increasing fragmentation of its home territory. Dubai conducted a test flight, sans passengers, of what it called the world's first drone taxi. The two-seater pilotless vehicle, developed by German company Volocopter, is hoisted by 18 propellers. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  317, 6, 19 (December 2017) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1217-19 Yasemin Saplakoglu is a science writer based in New York City. She is a staff writer at Live Science and was an editorial intern at . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.