Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Crowdfunded drones could help protect Kenyan rhinos Imagine that only a couple of dozen police officers patrol all of Manhattan and protect something that heavily armed criminals are willing to kill for. That is roughly what it is like these days at Ol Pejeta Conservancy in central Kenya. The 36,000-hectare nonprofit wildlife reserve is home to endangered black and white rhinos, elephants, lions, chimpanzees and Grevy's zebras, as well as four of the world's last seven northern white rhinos ( ). The rhinos, especially, are at risk from poachers who see vast fortunes in the animals' horns. According to the conservancy, a single horn could bring a poacher the equivalent of 30 years' pay in a country where the average income is just &dollar;1 a day. Although Ol Pejeta's northern white rhinos are under 24-hour armed guard, patrolling the rest of the conservancy with only 160 guards is an almost impossible task. To help protect the animals within its care, the conservancy has turned to the crowdfunding site Indiegogo to raise &dollar;35,000 to buy its first unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), or drone. Similar drones have been used around the world to help conserve other endangered species. The conservancy chose a model from the U.S.-based company Unmanned Innovation that will be able to fly over the landscape in preprogrammed patterns while sending a live video feed back to a laptop computer. The UAV will sport a high-definition camera with a high-power zoom for day flights and thermal imaging for nighttime activities. Ol Pejeta also plans to fit some of the animals with radio-frequency identification (RFID) tags, which the drone will be able to locate and track. The combination of video and RFID tags will allow them to see problems from the air, which could include animals in trouble or the presence of people, such as poachers, where they are not supposed to be. The first use of drones, though, will be as a deterrent to poaching. "The word will go around that there's something up there--an eye in the sky," says Robert Breare, who is in charge of strategy and innovation at Ol Pejeta and is heading up the project. "The sound of its motor as it's flying along--that will be the single biggest benefit for us." This article was originally published with the title "Eyes in the Sky" in Scientific American  308, 3, 32 (March 2013) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0313-32b John R. Platt is the editor of The Revelator. An award-winning environmental journalist, his work has appeared in Scientific American, Audubon, Motherboard, and numerous other magazines and publications. His "Extinction Countdown" column has run continuously since 2004 and has covered news and science related to more than 1,000 endangered species. John lives on the outskirts of Portland, Ore., where he finds himself surrounded by animals and cartoonists. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.