Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world 4/4/16 is a Square Root Day. Only nine days in each century qualify, and the next one occurs in nine years.* Lake Poopo, formerly the country's second-largest lake, has nearly dried up because of a combination of drought, water use for agriculture and mining, and the shrinking of Andean glaciers that serve as its source. The remains of the lake have been declared a disaster site. The French government announced it will "pave" 1,000 kilometers of public roads with solar panels. Installed over the next five years, the high-tech streets could supply electricity to about 8 percent of the country's population. Few people will ever summit Mount Everest, but virtual-reality studio Solfar aims to bring more of us closer to the experience. This spring the company will release software for VR headsets that offers a danger-free trek up the earth's highest peak. The Dutch national police partnered with a raptor-training company to add eagles to their antidrone arsenal. The country now owns its first satellite, Belintersat-1. It joins Laos, Venezuela and Nigeria in operating telecommunications satellites built--and launched--in China. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  314, 4, 20 (April 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0416-20 For more details, visit 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.