Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A new estimate for the impactor that created the Imbrium Basin puts the rock at the size of New Jersey The Man in the Moon has an enormous right eye: the crater known as the Imbrium Basin, which is 1,200 kilometers across. The cavity was created roughly four billion years ago during a collision with something big. How big? "About the size of New Jersey," says Peter H. Schultz, a planetary geoscientist at Brown University who published a new estimate of the object's heft in . To figure out the impactor's dimensions, Schultz and his colleague David A. Crawford turned to the surface features of the moon--in particular the grooves that emanate from the collision site, which were carved by flying chunks of the impactor. The researchers usedmeasurements of those grooves and laboratory experiments to calculate the rock's size, speed and impact angle. The updated magnitude is 10 times more massive than previous estimates, which were based on computer simulations, and is a reminder of how little we know about the early solar system, Schultz says. Estimated diameter of the Chicxulub impactor, which struck modern-day Mexico approximately 66 million years ago and contributed to the demise of the dinosaurs. Estimated diameter of the asteroid that formed South Africa's Vredefort Crater, the largest confirmed crater on Earth's surface. Newly estimated diameter of the asteroid that created the moon's Imbrium Basin. This article was originally published with the title "Lunar Landscaping" in Scientific American  315, 5, 16 (November 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1116-16 Karl J.P. Smith is a AAAS Mass Media Fellow and current PhD candidate in biophysics, computation, and structural biology at the University of Rochester. He is the typewriting storyteller behind the 10 cent story project and is the co-creator of the Bench Warmer's Podcast. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.