Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue New analysis reveals river deltas' surprising expansion Earth's river deltas have long been home to vital ports and wetlands. Despite sea-level rise, these economic and ecological hotspots have expanded on the whole in recent decades, scientists have found--but this trend is unlikely to last. Geoscientist Jaap Nienhuis of Utrecht University in the Netherlands and his colleagues have pinpointed almost 11,000 river deltas in data from satellites and worldwide field studies. Using computer simulations, they estimated how tides, waves and human activity upstream affected each delta's size and shape from 1985 through 2015. In many watersheds along South America's eastern coast, as well as Asia's eastern, southern and southeastern coasts, the researchers found that deforestation increased sediment carried by rivers--and that deltas have grown accordingly. (The Ganges delta, as seen here, is one such example.) In North America, however, dams have trimmed the volume of sediment available to nourish many river deltas. Although sea levels rose about 10 centimeters during the period studied, river deltas in aggregate gained about 54 square kilometers of new land each year, the researchers reported in January in . But they say that growth is most likely only a short-term phenomenon. Molly Keogh, a wetlands ecologist most recently at Tulane University, who was not involved in the study, agrees; she notes that sea levels are projected to increase about 60 centimeters by the end of the 21st century. Also, delta sediments are notorious for compacting under their own weight over time. This "double whammy," as Keogh describes it, will lead to an overall shrinkage of river deltas across the world in the coming decades. Beyond the loss of low-lying infrastructure and fisheries, consequences could include the inundation of major population centers and agricultural regions. This article was originally published with the title "Deltas Rising" in Scientific American  322, 5, 17 (May 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0520-17 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.