Read Our Latest Issue Now is the moment to act so that we never have to experience an authoritarian version of the U.S. Democracy is currently under threat in the United States. Some scientists have joined in efforts to counter this threat, but most of us have not. We are understandably focused on our pressing professional and family responsibilities, particularly during the current COVID-19 pandemic. But in this time of crisis for our nation we need to sound the alarm. To do so--to express our concerns and recommend actions--a group of us posted a statement on September 18 for our colleagues to sign: Initial signers included eight Nobel Prize winners; more than 60 members of the U.S. National Academies; former high-level government officials; and university presidents. A week later, more than 2,500 scientists had added their endorsements, from a broad spectrum of scientific disciplines, and the number is now approaching 4,000, if it hasn't already reached that milestone. Scientists are trained to separate truth from fiction, signal from noise. We can spot scientific disinformation, which is a hallmark of authoritarianism. And we see clearly when scientific analysis is being neglected in setting policies that affect the welfare of the nation. The presidents of the National Academies of Science and Medicine have released a statement that they are "alarmed by political interference in science amid [the] pandemic." Others are also voicing concern, but more is needed. We hope that our statement will stimulate other sectors of U.S. society to speak up similarly--the business community, the sports world, universities, and more. Some of the grave issues identified in the above statement, such as racial and economic injustice, pre-date the current crisis. What is now under attack is the very possibility of addressing these deep systemic problems through a participatory, cooperative, deliberative, democratic process. The United States is at a turning point. We are all familiar with many nations that have made the transition from democracy to authoritarianism. All such transitions have led to a reduction in freedom and some to true horrors inflicted on minority groups and dissidents. Now is the moment to act so that we never have to experience an authoritarian version of America. As one step, we urge our scientific colleagues to sign on to the above statement at We must use whatever channels are available to make our voices heard, including through our scientific societies, the media, nongovernmental organizations and political associations. We must join together in this effort.  Robert Goldston is a professor of astrophysical sciences and a faculty affiliate of the Program on Science and Global Security at Princeton University. Zia Mian is a physicist and co-director of Princeton University's Program on Science and Global Security. Ali Nouri, Ph.D., a molecular biologist, is the president of the Federation of American Scientists. Nouri is co-chair of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine's New Voices Initiative, and serves on the Academy's Global Diplomacy Roundtable. He previously served as a biotechnology advisor in the office of UN Secretary General and served nearly 10 years as a senior advisor and legislative director in the US Senate. Follow him on Twitter . Stewart Prager is a professor of astrophysical sciences and a faculty affiliate of the Program on Science and Global Security at Princeton University. Paul G. Richards is Mellon Professor, emeritus, of the Natural Sciences; and a Special Research Scientist at Columbia University. Andrew Rosenberg, a marine ecologist, is director of the Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists. Lynn R. Sykes is Higgins Professor Emeritus of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University. Frank von Hippel is a senior research physicist and professor of public and international affairs emeritus in the Program on Science and Global Security at Princeton University. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.