Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Office workers exhibit symptoms of dry eye Most Americans sit for at least six hours a day--an act that has been linked to obesity and heart disease, among other ailments. Mounting evidence suggests long hours staring at computer monitors may also be taking a toll on the eyes. People peering for hours into a screen tend to blink less often and have tears that evaporate more quickly, which dries out the eye and can cause blurred vision or pain. Left untreated, dry eye can lead to corneal ulcers and scarring. Tears keep the eye moist and wash away dust or debris that could cause damage. But the tears of people with dry eye have less of a protein called mucin 5AC, which normally helps to keep tears sticky and spread evenly across the eye. A new study, based on 96 Japanese office workers, found that staring at a screen for eight hours or more is associated with lower mucin levels. The results were published online in June in . The good news is that the damage from staring at a screen is not likely to be permanent. Certain molecules that help to produce mucin remained roughly equal among test subjects with and without dry eye, regardless of their eyestrain status. Although larger studies need to be done, the findings confirm mucin as a possible target for future diagnosis and treatments of dry eye disease. Doctors already suggest taking regular breaks from the screen. Take a walk--or you may have a reason to tear up. This article was originally published with the title "Dried Up" in Scientific American  311, 3, 20 (September 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0914-20b Dina Fine Maron, formerly an associate editor at , is now a wildlife trade investigative reporter at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.