Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world A chemical that helped to create a hole in the ozone layer is reappearing. An international investigation traced the resurgence of the banned gas, known as CFC-11, to factories in a town in the eastern province of Shandong. The National Congress of Chile passed a bill outlining plans to establish a ministry of science. The goal is to invest more in research, as part of a shift toward an economy of "knowledge and creativity." Archaeologists found remnants of a city that dates back 4,800 years in the autonomous Kurdish region of northern Iraq. Among the ruins were 92 clay tablets--some of which contained the city's name, Mardaman. About 100 high school girls from Ethiopia, Kenya and Swaziland joined girls in Namibia for a two-week "boot camp" to learn how to write code and develop mobile apps. They also got a crash course in basic sciences. A pilot whale washed ashore in Thailand's southern Songkhla province with nearly 18 pounds of plastic in its stomach. The whale died days later, renewing concerns about the amount of such waste humans have put into the world's waterways. A judge dismissed two environmental lawsuits against five of the world's largest oil companies. During the trial, however, the companies' representatives said they recognize and agree with the scientific consensus that humans have caused unprecedented climate changes. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  319, 3, 19 (September 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0918-19 Maya Miller is an editorial intern for . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.