Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Three books help us nurture our strengths and achieve our dreams Sitting through an entire lecture or even a movie without furtively glancing at a cell phone can be surprisingly difficult for some of us. In (HarperCollins, 2013), psychologist and journalist Daniel Goleman explores the significance of attention, revealing the deleterious effects of distractions on work and relationships. Investing more fully in the moment can spur creativity when wrestling with a problem or even spark a new romantic connection. Attention, Goleman suggests, is like a muscle, and learning to strengthen it through simple exercises, such as 10 minutes of deep breathing every morning, can help the brain gain focus. Enhancing attention is not the only thing that can improve our prospects. In (Penguin Group/Hudson Street Press, 2013), communications consultants John Neffinger and Matthew Kohut illuminate what makes certain people particularly likable and magnetic. Neffinger and Kohut home in on two especially important characteristics: strength and warmth. They argue that strength reflects a person's competence and that warmth indicates someone's capacity for empathy. The authors also offer tips on how to increase these qualities. Despite a desire to aim high, insecurity often holds us back. In (Penguin Group/Hudson Street Press, 2013), cognitive neuroscientist Bob Deutsch, with writer Lou Aronica, contends that we can overcome this impediment by developing certain innate abilities, such as curiosity and openness. Deutsch provides inspiration by describing the personal trials of artists and scientists who have overcome self-doubt or other setbacks to ultimately achieve success. This article was originally published with the title "Roundup: Unearthing Inner Resources" in SA Mind 25, 1, 73 (January 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0114-73 Victoria Stern is a contributing editor at . January 1, 2014  --  Daisy Yuhas January 1, 2014  --  Daniela Hernandez January 1, 2014  --  Daisy Yuhas Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.