Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Exposure to particulate matter led to heart and lung problems for thousands Smoke from Australia's disastrous bush fires killed hundreds of people and sent thousands to hospitals and emergency rooms, according to a new study. The estimated death toll does not include fatalities resulting directly from the flames that spread across much of eastern Australia late last year. A research made public yesterday in the finds that at least 417 people died from smoke inhalation. Bush fire smoke also sent over 3,000 people to hospitals for cardiac and respiratory problems and forced more than 1,300 to emergency rooms for asthma attacks. "The calculation does not include direct injuries or fatalities from the fire fronts," said Fay Johnston, a researcher at the University of Tasmania. "We used known relationships between air pollution and increases in the health conditions and deaths to arrive at our estimate." The unprecedented bush fire season has been linked to global warming as record heat and dry conditions preceded the outbreak. The study suggests that rising temperatures are having a profound impact on the health of the country's population. More aggressive adaptation measures in Australia are required to protect the public from future climate-related disasters, the researchers argue. "Smoke is just one of many problems that will intensify with the increasing frequency and severity of major bushfires associated with climate change," the authors wrote. "Expanded and diversified approaches to bushfire mitigation and adaptation to living in an increasingly hot and fire-prone country are urgently needed." The research team, composed of scholars from the Australian states of Tasmania and New South Wales, says the spike in deaths and hospitalizations in regions affected by smoke can be mainly attributed to fine particulate matter. The highest level of particulate matter exposure recorded during the fire emergency exceeded the historic mean value by more than 14 times, the paper notes. The authors caution that their study does not include data for the entire country, only for four states on Australia's east coast. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.