Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Books and recommendation from by Piotr Naskrecki. University of Chicago Press, 2011 Take a photo safari through the world as it used to be, as revealed by living organisms little changed from their ancient ancestors. Naturalist and photographer Piotr Naskrecki gives creatures ranging from horseshoe crabs on the eastern shores of the U.S. to three-toed sloths in the forests of Guyana their due. by Persi Diaconis and Ron Graham. Princeton University Press, 2011 The Riemann hypothesis, the Mandelbrot set, Fermat's last theorem--these mathematical notions and others underlie all manner of magic tricks. Mathematicians Persi Diaconis--also a card magician--and Ron Graham--also a juggler--unveil the connections between magic and math in this well-illustrated volume. by Gordon M. Shepherd. Columbia University Press, 2011 Making the case that the role of humans' sense of smell in producing flavor has been vastly underappreciated, neuroscientist Gordon M. Shepherd lays out the new science of food perception and upends the received wisdom that the sense of smell diminished over the course of human evolution. by John Gribbin. Wiley, 2011 "There may be more habitable planets in the Galaxy than there are people on planet Earth. But 'habitable' does not mean 'inhabited.'" Astrophysicist John Gribbin describes the cosmic events that have made Earth special and argues that ours is almost certainly the only intelligent civilization in the Milky Way. Kate Wong is a senior editor for evolution and ecology at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.