Read Our Latest Issue The devastating brain disease slowly destroys memory and identity. Gain a better understanding through a detailed tour presented by our partners, As many as 35 million people worldwide have Alzheimer's disease, the most common form of dementia among adults over 60 years of age. That figure could , concludes the nonprofit . In the U.S., about 5 percent of adults 65 to 74 have Alzheimer's, and nearly half of those age 85 and older may have it, according . The predominant explanation for how Alzheimer's disease develops and ravages the brain are explained at a new site built by We present a few examples of the stunning graphics used on the site below. You can read the complete e-book at .  Neurons and the connections they make with one another, called synapses, are the keys to the brain's functions. In Alzheimer's disease, an abnormal protein called amyloid beta begin to appear on the neurons, forming plaques and compromising brain activity. Another protein implicated in Alzheimer's is the tau protein: Besides age, other risk factors include family history, previous brain trauma, heart disease and gender (the prevalence rate for women over 70 is 16 percent, compared with men at 11 percent). Despite much research, to cure the disease or modify its relentless progression toward cognitive decline, although some drugs may lessen symptoms for a limited period. Some simple steps may help cut your chances of getting the disease or slow it down, such as pursuing an active life, eating right and staying socially engaged. May 26, 2010  --  Gary Stix November 1, 2009  --  Joel N. Shurkin April 30, 2007  --  Nikhil Swaminathan February 1, 2008  --  Peter Sergo September 1, 2010  --  Allan R. Jones and Caroline C. Overly October 31, 2011  --  Gary Stix Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.