Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The award, which comes with a no-strings-attached $625,000 stipend paid out over five years, also went to black carbon and nano materials researchers Yitang Zhang, a mathematician who recently emerged from obscurity when he partly solved a long-standing puzzle in number theory, is one of the 2014 fellows of the John D. & Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation. The awards, commonly known as 'genius grants', were announced on September 17. Each comes with a no-strings-attached $625,000 stipend paid out over five years. Zhang, a mathematician at the University of New Hampshire in Durham, was honored for , whole numbers that are divisible only by 1 or themselves. In April 2013 he published a partial solution to a 2,300-year-old question: how many 'twin primes' -- or pairs of prime numbers separated by two, such as 41 and 43 -- exist. The twin-prime conjecture, often attributed to the Greek mathematician Euclid of Alexandria, posits that there is an infinite number of such pairs. But mathematicians have not been able to prove that the conjecture is true. Zhang's work has narrowed the problem, however. In his 2013 proof, Zhang showed that there are infinitely many prime pairs that are less than 70 million units apart. Other science and maths-related of this year's fellowships are listed below. a physicist at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, studies the organizational principles at work in the brain, and how connections within the organ change over time and under stress. Her research, which draws on network science, has revealed that people with more 'flexible' brains -- those that can easily make new connections -- are better at learning new information. an environmental engineer at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, studies on climate and human health. Bond, who led the most comprehensive study to date of black carbon's environmental effects, has found that the pollutant is second only to carbon dioxide in terms of its warming impact. a social psychologist at Stanford University in California, studies the effects of racial bias on the criminal-justice system in the United States. Her analyses have shown, for example, that black defendants with stereotypical 'black' features are more likely to receive the death penalty in cases where victims are white. a computer scientist at the IBM Thomas J. Watson Research Center in Yorktown Heights, New York, has shown that encrypted data can be manipulated without being decrypted, and that programs themselves can be encrypted and still function. a materials scientist at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, is developing nanomaterials for a range of uses, such as solar cells and batteries, information technology and biotechnology. an historian of science based in Washington DC, has examined intersections between the arts and sciences and issues of authorship and intellectual property. She is now at work on a book tracing the development of engineering in 16th-century Rome. a mathematician at Harvard University in Cambridge, Massachusetts, studies derived algebraic geometry. "With an entire generation of young theorists currently being trained on Lurie's new foundations, his greatest impact is yet to come," the MacArthur Foundation said in its award announcement. In June, Lurie was named a winner of the inaugural . Lauren Morello works for magazine. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.