Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue This month, posed a question about art these days: Should we, the public, be allowed to know how much of it is human talent, and how much was assisted by technology? (I was thinking of, for example, Automatic mode on cameras, or Autotune, or GarageBand, which can produce finished, fully orchestrated songs even if you don't know anything about music.) But what about lip syncing? Do we care when a singer is faking it? Does it depend on whether it's a Broadway show, a live opera, or a rock concert? Are we more forgiving when the singer is also dancing athletically? Here's how history answers. Whitney Houston, Shakira, Hillary Duff, Selena Gomez, Beyonce, and Jennifer Lopez have all been similarly caught lip syncing in "live" concerts. Maybe audience shouldn't be surprised anymore. Maybe we should be satisfied with canned recordings, faked live. Yet there's a reason we go to see a live singer: We don't know the outcome. It's more exciting. Anything can happen. (Just ask Idina Menzel, who went famously off pitch on the high note of "Let It Go," during her televised Times Square New Year's Eve performance in 2014. Well, at least she wasn't singing to a track.) As New York Times music critic Bernard Holland wrote after the Pavarotti incident in 1992, "People don't want to be two-timed. Everything we do in life is geared to cause and effect, and when Mr. Pavarotti opens his mouth, we insist on not knowing what will come out. Public performance is more of a sporting event than we like to admit. We talk about beauty, but we all keep score." This article was originally published with the title "Is Lip Syncing a Form of Cheating?" in Scientific American  317, 1,  (July 2017) David Pogue is the anchor columnist for Yahoo Tech and host of several miniseries on PBS. Credit: Nick Higgins July 1, 2017  --  David Pogue Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.