Read Our Latest Issue Scientists, engineers and tech developers earn spots on magazine's list of the year's most influential people HED: Science Moves and Shakes Time's Top 100 List DEK: Scientists, engineers and tech developers earn spots on magazine's list of the year's most influential people Byline: Jennifer Hackett This year 14 scientists, engineers and technology developers earned spots on Time magazine's Top 100 Most Influential People. The categories include pioneers, leaders, icons, titans and artists, and most of this year's names were in the pioneer category. looks back on its coverage of these groundbreaking individuals. The Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory or LIGO and confirmed a century-old prediction by Albert Einstein this year, 32 years after its founding. Astrophysicist was the leading founder of LIGO and thus played a vital role in this major physics breakthrough. Thorne also , working closely with director Christopher Nolan to help craft a science-driven story. Kathy Niakan made headlines when she , a genomic editing system, on human embryos. Niakan is using CRISPR to study the effects of genes on human development in order to better understand embryonic health, infertility and pregnancy. The edited embryos will never be implanted in a womb, but in order to work with them, Niakan had to . Although residents knew there was something wrong with their water supply in Flint, Mich., it took two scientific whistleblowers to get the lead poisoning crisis taken seriously. Virginia Tech civil engineering professor , an expert on water corrosion, conducted a study that uncovered high levels of lead in Flint's drinking water, while pediatrician tested the children of Flint, proving they had . Engineer and planetary scientist first tried to get a space probe to Pluto more than three decades ago. Stern's passion and dedication as principal investigator helped reach Pluto in 2015, and it sent back wave after wave of . New Horizons' findings have how we think about the dwarf planet, and the probe will go on to explore the to further understanding of the solar system.  a , has been making headlines since its discovery by paleoanthropologist Lee Berger, whose team recovered more than 1,500 fossil specimens representing at least 15 individuals from a cave in South Africa. The remains were found in a deep chamber, possibly indicating that  --a trait thought to be unique to The find is , but decidedly fascinating. It has been a tumultuous year for women in science, with erupting at multiple institutions. Hope Jahren, a tenured professor at the University of Hawaii at Manoa who researches fossilized plant life, refuses to keep quiet about the widespread issue of harassment and discrimination in science. By calling out , Jahren hopes to address the toxic culture that's causing women to leave the field. The Volkswagen emissions scandal revealed that although VW vehicles passed Environmental Protection Agency regulations, they were actually emitting 35 times the maximum permitted levels of nitrogen oxides. The cars used software that could by artificially lowering emissions during testing conditions. Dan Carder, an engineer at West Virginia University, tested the vehicles at the request of the International Council on Clean Transportation and brought the corporation's fraud to light. Sunita Narain's organization, the Centre for Science and Environment, has been fighting for just shy of two decades. Narain, an environmentalist and activist, has pressured the Indian government to embrace pollution-alleviating recommendations and has advocated for India's forest-dwellers and indigenous peoples who are often falsely blamed for environmental problems. Virtual reality has been heralded as the next step in entertainment for decades. And now Palmer Luckey, the 23-year-old founder of Oculus VR and the inventor of the , is making that next step happen. Whether used for video games or as emotive tie-ins to films such as , or for recording real-world tragedies including the Syrian refugee crisis, the virtual reality technology pioneered by Luckey is being put to use all over. The husband-and-wife team behind Facebook is putting its wealth to use in the form of the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative. They announced that they are committing 99 percent of their wealth to tackling social inequality via measures aimed at improving education, funding disease research and empowering communities. The new CEO of Google, engineer Sindar Pichai, has been involved in developing many of the company's most-used products including Google Drive, Maps, Chrome and Gmail. He also oversees Android.  Russian entrepreneur and physicist Yuri Milner does not shy away from big ideas. Along with theoretical physicist Stephen Hawking, Milner heads Breakthrough Starshot--a to use lasers to propel minuscule spacecraft to Alpha Centauri. Milner is no stranger to funding space-related projects: He also committed at least $100 million to support SETI in the form of , hunting for extraterrestrial life. His Breakthrough Prize has supported and .  When Steve Jobs died, Apple's next CEO had an intimidating role to fill. Tim Cook stepped up and garnered much admiration for his leadership of the company. He recently was in the news for refusing to comply with the FBI's request to help unlock the out of concern for the of millions of Apple customers.   studying traditional Chinese medicines, pharmaceutical chemist Youyou Tu discovered a . She extracted artemisinin by soaking--not boiling--sweet wormwood, following an ancient recipe. Artemisinin is now a main line of defense against malaria and earned Tu a Nobel Prize, making her the first woman in China to win one.  February 11, 2016  --  Josh Fischman and Steve Mirsky April 12, 2016  --  Lee Billings September 10, 2015  --  Kate Wong December 8, 2015  --  Larry Greenemeier Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.