Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Virtual reality reveals that the feeling of familiarity arises from spatial layout Deja vu--that uncanny feeling of having experienced a situation before--may be triggered by the layout of a scene, according to research in the June issue of . Past studies found that deja vu usually concerns places, so cognitive psychologist Anne Cleary of Colorado State University, Fort Collins, and her colleagues wanted to see if spaces modeled in virtual reality could replicate the striking experience. It worked: subjects most often reported deja vu when the spatial layout of new settings closely matched that of scenes they had already visited but was not similar enough for them to consciously recognize the resemblance. For instance, a museum hall might have the same configuration as an earlier courtyard--the location of a central statue relative to the benches and rugs in the museum echoed the location of a central potted plant relative to bushes and plants in the courtyard. If subjects failed to register the spatial similarities, they felt only that eerie sense of familiarity in an unfamiliar place. This article was originally published with the title "Similar Scenes Spark Deja Vu" in SA Mind 23, 4, 17 (September 2012) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0912-17a Charles Q. Choi is a frequent contributor to . His work has also appeared in and among others. In his spare time, he has traveled to all seven continents. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.