Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A preview by our editor in chief of the June issue of Given the inky blackness of space, I suppose it shouldn't have been surprising that we can't detect the parts of the cosmos that do not glow like the stars or radiate other types of energy. Cosmologists, observing galaxies rotating at speeds too fast to be possible given those observable components, have hypothesized unseen particles called dark matter. What is it doing, and what is its composition? In " ," Bogdan A. Dobrescu and Don Lincoln delve into the complexity of this unseen universe. Dark matter could contain a world of particles. Dark atoms and molecules could perhaps clump together into galactic disks that overlap with the ordinary matter disks and spiral arms of galaxies such as Andromeda. Experiments are under way with the aim of detecting such complex dark matter. "The real message," Dobrescu and Lincoln write, "is that we have a mystery before us and that we do not know what the answer will be." The smiling people in the photograph are members of 's international family: the magazine is translated into 14 languages; its sister publication, the bimonthly , is translated into seven. Every year we try to gather to discuss how better to serve our readers and the global enterprise that is science. Interestingly, the first translated edition was started when the magazine was already 45 years old--in 1890!-- . That edition was eventually folded, and it was some decades before we firmly established a series of translations that we see today. Now it's hard to imagine it otherwise. This article was originally published with the title "The Shadow Universe" in Scientific American  313, 1, 4 (July 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0715-4 Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.