Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Chemists and automakers mark progress toward environmentally benign fuels and vehicles Motorists have heard a lot lately about ethanol-based fuels, which burn cleaner than gasoline and derive from renewable, domestic biomass. has furthered this technology by developing enzymes to convert tough, sugar-bearing cellulose in inexpensively produced agricultural waste into ethanol ( ). Another renewable alternative fuel is biodiesel--predominantly vegetable oils that are processed to serve as a clean-burning fuel for diesel engines. of the Tokyo Institute of Technology and his colleagues have demonstrated that a charred mixture of inexpensive sugars, starches or cellulose can be treated to formulate an effective solid-acid catalyst for making biodiesel that is insoluble, cheap to prepare and easy to recycle. Engineers are toiling to make diesels operate with fewer nitrogen oxide emissions. A leader in this quest is German-based automaker , which recently introduced BLUETEC technology--a modular exhaust treatment system that cuts nitrogen oxide and soot output significantly, enabling cars to meet the most stringent U.S. emission standards. Another technology that gets better mileage than standard engines, and hence produces less carbon dioxide for each mile driven, is the gasoline-electric hybrid, which marries a gasoline engine with electric motors. Current hybrid vehicles save fuel in stop-and-go driving but provide little mileage benefit on the highway. The new two-mode hybrid system from , and boosts fuel efficiency at both low and high speeds, improving combined mileage 25 percent over standard models. Yet another way to raise the environmental performance of hybrid vehicles is to give them the means to store electrical grid power so that at times they can run on electricity alone instead of drawing power from a fossil-fuel-burning engine. These plug-in hybrids came closer to reality when two companies, , a joint venture of EnergyCS and Clean-Tech in California, and , a Canadian company, each introduced plug-in hybrid upgrade kits for the Toyota Prius. In the wake of these developments, the road to a greener, more sustainable energy future seems to be opening up. This article was originally published with the title "On the Road to Green" in Scientific American  295, 6, 52-53 (December 2006) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1206-52b Steven Ashley is a staff editor and writer. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.