Read Our Latest Issue "First, some background. Coffee is the second most popular
beverage in the world, after tea. Historians believed the use of
coffee as a stimulant originated in ancient Abyssinia
(Ethiopia). Caffeine is the component of coffee that is
responsible for its mild stimulatory effect on the central
nervous system. A six-ounce cup of coffee typically contains
approximately 50 to 75 milligrams of caffeine, although the
amount varies considerably depending on the method of
preparation and the type of coffee; Robusta coffee contains
nearly twice as much caffeine as Arabica, for instance. For
people who are sensitive to caffeine, even 10 milligrams can
cause discomfort. That is why nearly all decaffeinated coffees
contain less than 10 milligrams of caffeine (typically two to
five milligrams) per serving. Today decaffeinated coffee
accounts for approximately 12 percent of total worldwide coffee
consumption, or nearly 1 billion pounds per year. "The first process for decaffeinating coffee was invented by
Ludwig Roselius in 1905. Roselius's method used benzene, a
potentially toxic hydrocarbon, to remove caffeine from
premoistened, green coffee beans. Modern decaffeination
processes are much more gentle; many make that point by claiming
to be 'naturally decaffeinated.' "There are three main decaffeination processes currently in
use. They have some basic similarities. In all three approaches,
the green or roasted beans are first moistened, making the
caffeine soluble so that it can be drawn out. Also, they all
decaffeinate green coffee at moderate temperatures, typically
ranging from 70 to 100 degrees Celsius (160 to 210 degrees
Fahrenheit). "One method is water processing. As you might expect, this
process employs water as the solvent to remove caffeine from the
green coffee beans. Typically a battery extraction process using
eight to 12 vessels is employed; each vessel contains green
coffee at a different stage of decaffeination. "A mixture of water and green-coffee extract that has already
been reduced in caffeine is circulated around the coffee beans
within the extraction battery (oils in the coffee extract aid in
the decaffeination process). After a predetermined time, the
vessel that has been exposed to the low-caffeine extract is
isolated and emptied. The decaffeinated coffee beans are then
rinsed and dried, and a vessel containing fresh green coffee is
put on stream. The caffeine-rich extract that was drawn off from
the vessel containing the fresh, green coffee is passed through
a bed of activated charcoal, which absorbs the caffeine. This
charcoal has been pretreated with a carbohydrate, typically
sucrose, that helps it absorb caffeine without removing other
compounds that contribute to the flavor of the coffee. The
sucrose blocks carbon sites that would normally absorb sugars
from the liquid, green-coffee extract. The caffeine-reduced
extract can then be reused to begin the process anew. The water
process is natural (that is, it does not involve any chemicals),
but it is not very specific for caffeine; it removes 94 to 96
percent of the caffeine. "A second decaffeination method is the direct solvent method.
These days this technique usually employs methylene chloride
(used predominately in Europe), coffee oil or ethyl acetate to
dissolve the caffeine and extract it from the coffee. Ethyl
acetate is an ester that is found naturally in fruits and
vegetables such as bananas, apples and coffee. The liquid
solvent is circulated through a bed of moist, green coffee
beans, removing some of the caffeine; the solvent is then
recaptured in an evaporator, and the beans are washed with
water. Residues of the solvent are removed from the coffee to
trace levels by steaming the beans. Often this process utilizes
batch processing--that is, solvent is added to the vessel,
circulated and emptied several times until the coffee has been
decaffeinated to the desired level. Solvents are used because
they are generally more precisely targeted to caffeine than is
charcoal, leaving behind nearly all the noncaffeine solids. The
more caffeine-specific solvents, such as methylene chlorides,
can extract 96 to 97 percent of the caffeine. "The third approach, supercritical carbon dioxide
decaffeination, is very similar to the direct solvent methods,
except that in this case the solvent is carbon dioxide.
High-pressure vessels (operating at roughly 250 to 300 times
atmospheric pressure) are employed to circulate the carbon
dioxide through a bed of premoistened, green coffee beans. At
such pressures, carbon dioxide takes on unique, 'supercritical'
properties that enhance its usefulness as a solvent.
Supercritical carbon dioxide has a density like that of a
liquid, but its viscosity and diffusivity are similar to those
of a gas. These attributes significantly lower its pumping
costs. Carbon dioxide is a popular solvent because it has a
relatively low pressure critical point, and it is naturally
abundant. The caffeine-rich carbon dioxide exiting the
extraction vessel is either channeled through a bed of activated
charcoal or through a water 'bath' tower to absorb the caffeine.
The carbon dioxide is then recirculated back to the extraction
vessel. Supercritical carbon dioxide decaffeination is
capital-cost intensive, but it offers very good yields. It
typically can extract 96 to 98 percent of the caffeine
originally present in the beans." 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.