Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Oral cancer is straightforward for dentists to detect early on. They can easily identify lesions in the mouth that are precancerous. But for people living in parts of the world with few dentists, these lesions can go undiagnosed until it is too late for effective treatment. Now a patent application has been filed for a device that aims to tackle that problem, designed by Manu Prakash of Stanford University and his colleagues. Called OScan, the device has bite guides to hold open a patient's mouth and a mount that allows a smartphone or digital camera to attach to the front. In this way, health workers in the field can easily photograph the inside of a person's mouth and send those images wirelessly to an off-site dentist or medical expert who can evaluate them for signs of malignancy. In countries such as India, where there can be as few as one dentist per quarter of a million residents in rural areas and where oral cancer accounts for more than 40 percent of all cancer-related deaths, OScan has the potential to save many lives. This article was originally published with the title "Using a Smartphone to Detect Cancer" in Scientific American  310, 5, 28 (May 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0514-28a Geoffrey Giller is a freelance science writer based in Ithaca, N.Y., and a former intern at . His work has also appeared in , and . You can follow him on Twitter @GeoffreyGiller. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.