Read Our Latest Issue A tasteful science activity from Science Buddies Biology Senses Perception The brain Have you ever tried adding green food coloring to your milk? Or blue coloring to the butter you spread on your bread? You might not have tried this, but for years scientists have been studying the effect of color and food appearance on how we perceive food tastes. Believe it or not our eyes are an important part of tasting and perceiving food! In this activity you will learn about how you can trick your taste buds--with just a little food coloring! The taste buds on your tongue detect flavors and help you identify the foods you eat. Other senses, however, also play a role in how we experience our foods. You probably know the aroma of foods can have a strong effect on how they taste, but did you know the appearance of food also changes how we experience it? Because we usually look at food before putting it in our mouths the very first information your brain gets about any particular food often comes from the eyes! From an early age we learn to associate colors with flavors. When something is orange, we expect an "orange" flavor. If you tasted orange pudding, you would be surprised to find it had a mint flavor. Discrepancies between the appearance of foods and their tastes can make it more difficult to identify the flavoring. Research has shown the appearance of food can dramatically affect how it tastes to us. In one study participants ate a plate of normal-looking steak and French fries. All the participants said they enjoyed the food, and it tasted fine. When the lights were brightened, however, it was revealed that the steak was dyed a blue color, and the fries were green. When they saw this many of the participants refused to eat any more of the food--and a few even became sick. In this activity you will be exploring how the appearance of the food we eat affects how it tastes. Don't worry, there won't be any blue meat!  In this activity you tested whether the color of a liquid impacted your volunteer's perception of the liquid's taste. Despite the fact each cup contained the same thing (apple juice), you probably found your volunteers preferred the taste of the juice one of the cups over the other. Because the only difference between the liquids was the color, we can determine from this activity that the appearance of the liquid affects how it tastes. If any of your volunteers noticed the cups all contained the same thing--compliment them on their acute taste perception! We rely so heavily on visual information, it often influences how we perceive information coming from our other senses. If any of your volunteers were able to separate the visual information from what they were tasting, their perceptions are especially sharp!  , from Science Buddies  , from Science Buddies  , from  , from Science Buddies 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.