Read Our Latest Issue Madagascar's forests?home to thousands of species found nowhere else?are disappearing at an alarming rate In the cool mist of morning, the Analamazoatra rain forest is surprisingly quiet. My guide stops to point out a leaf-tailed gecko blending almost imperceptibly into the bark of the tree it is hugging. Seconds later he calls my attention to the quinine plant, known for its antimalarial effects. A blue-feathered bird flits by, and we press on in silence. Then out of nowhere, an eerie wail floats through the trees, an utterance unlike any I have ever heard. It is the call of the Indri, the largest of Madagascars unique primates, the lemurs. A chorus ensues as Indris from up to several kilometers away reply, reminding each other of territory boundaries. 
They are the lucky ones. As residents of a well-managed national park, these lemurs enjoy a protected habitat, and Malagasy culture forbids the killing of their kind. Elsewhere in Madagascars forests, however, trespassing abounds. The perpetrators are not rogue lemurs. Rather they are people, destroying the countrys forests at a staggering rate. Habitat destruction on Madagascar is particularly devastating because it houses such high levels of biodiversity. Moreover, the vast majority of its plants and animals are endemicthat is, they are found no place else on Earth. Indeed, according to a report published last February in the journal 9,704 of the countrys 12,000 plant species are endemic; of its 987 vertebrate species, 771 are likewise unique, with new species continuing to come to light. Such figures are extraordinary considering that Madagascar is a small nation roughly the size of Texas. The islands myriad unique organisms are the result of its biogeographic history. Once it formed part of the giant supercontinent known as Gondwana, flanked by Africa and Australia. But millions of years ago the continents began to shift, and Madagascar drifted out to sea toward its present-day location in the Indian Ocean, some 250 miles off the eastern coast of Africa. Thus, for more than 160 million years it has been separated from other landmasses, a divorce that has enabled its plants and animals to evolve in isolation. The result is an unsurpassed density of plants and animals that are endemic not only at the species level but in many cases also in the broader scientific categories of genus and family. Madagascars wealth of biodiversity contrasts greatly with the poverty of its people. With a per capita income of around 300 dollars a year, it is one of the poorest nations in the world. It also has one of the highest population growth rates3.1 percent annually. Consequently, human pressures have increasingly taken their toll on the countrys natural resources. Indeed, in the 2,000 years since humans first arrived, intact forests on the island, which is believed to have once been almost entirely forested, have dwindled to a mere 5 percent of their original extenta level of destruction that is among the highest on the planet. One especially destructive practice is the annual burning of grass and brush in the west and in the central highlands of the island, where people raise cattle. They burn in the dry season so that theyll have a better regrowth of grasses when the rains come again, explains Ronald Nussbaum of the University of Michigan. Burning that grass is not in and of itself problematic because the grasses in these regions have largely been introduced. The problem is that these fires get away from No one is more painfully aware of Madagascar's plight than the biologists who work there, Nussbaum among them. Over the past decade he and his colleagues have discovered more than 150 new species of amphibians and reptiles in Madagascar, in addition to the 400 that were already known. But the discoveries are somewhat bittersweet. "Simple logic tells us that over the last 30 to 50 years there have probably been hundreds of amphibian and reptile species that have been wiped out," Nussbaum rues. "Theyre just blinking out when the forest blinks out on us." New species of primates continue to emerge as well. A paper in the October 10 issue of the describes newly recognized species of mouse lemurs, the most diminutive primates. They are also the subject of a paper in the October issue of the . But for these creatures, too, the bad news overshadows the good. In a paper currently in review at the journal Hamburg University zoologist Jrg Ganzhorn and his colleagues report that at least three of Madagascars unique ecosystems have sustained so much damage that many of the resident large animal species, including a number of lemurs, have disappeared from them. Furthermore, the researchers suspect that even if habitat destruction were to halt in these areas, the remaining large animal species would have little chance of maintaining viable populations beyond the next few decades. Ganzhorn is particularly worried about smaller, high-risk regions such as the coastal forests and the dry deciduous forests in the west, which he notes tend not to receive the attention of conservation organizations who want to maximize their chances of having success stories to bring back to their donors. Too often such areas are overlooked in favor of the more "fashionable" rain forests. Madagascar's abysmal situation is not for lack of trying among conservationists. The international community has been funding conservation efforts in Madagascar since 1985, says Russell Mittermeier, president of Conservation International. But "the commitment of the government leaves a bit to be desired," he says. Problematically, although the government has established a number of reserves around the country, "theres only a relatively small number of existing protected areas that are getting the full-scale management that they need to be effective over the long term," Mittermeier observes. "What you see happening at reserves is not what one expects," Nussbaum says. "You see people cutting trees, you see people burning down the edge of the forest so they can clear land to plant crops or raise cattle. Although these reserves are supposed to be left alone, its not being enforced." In a country where people have to worry about where their next meal is coming from, contemplating conservation is a luxury. "They need wood to build houses and for fires, and charcoal to cook their food. They need land cleared so they can raise more cattle and raise more crops. Thats how they survive," Nussbaum points out. Ganzhorn agrees. You cant just tell these people not to use the wood, he insistsyou have to give them alternatives. Yet even in cases where workers have provided alternatives, conservation efforts have still floundered. "Sometimes whats been lacking is a clear message to the local people about why [the international community is] working with them," Mittermeier remarks. "If were helping them improve their lifestyle theyve got to understand that its also because were interested in maintaining this ecosystem and that there is a responsibility on their part to respect the legislation in place and not continue to destroy the forest." In a number of cases, there has not been enough emphasis on that, he observes, thus "the objectives of the conservation and development program may not have been sufficiently realized because the messages to the local people were not entirely clear. They didnt really understand why it was that we were there in the first place." Educating children and students at the college level is of utmost importance, Mittermeier says. Just as kids in the U.S. are exposed to issues concerning habitat preservation, children in Madagascar should be as well. And college students with an interest in conservation should be provided with seed money for projects. Education efforts should be aimed at developing a cadre of future conservationists in Madagascar, he says. A sea change in the way the government handles conservation is likewise critical. Continued failure of Madagascars decision makers to enforce the protection of these reserves may do an added disservice to its people by losing foreign aid. "Madagascar gets significant resources from the international community beyond what would go into another comparably poor country because of its biodiversity," Mittermeier says. "I dont think they fully recognize how critical that is and how much of a role its played in bringing resources in." In the end, then, the decision rests with the people of Madagascar. As I sit in my New York office sorting through snapshots of marvelous animals and plants, I remember the haunting cry of the Indri and hope that they make the right choice. Kate Wong is a senior editor for evolution and ecology at . Credit: Nick Higgins  Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.