Read Our Latest Issue Explore the power of hidden gas bubbles with Science Buddies Physics Gas Pressure Temperature Volume Gas laws If you have marshmallows left over from camping or just an at-home s'mores dessert, you can put them to work for a science exploration! Did you realize that this sticky, tasty treat is mostly air, trapped in a stretchy substance? Have you ever tried to expand a marshmallow without getting your hands all sticky? How did you do it? And how big did it get? In this activity you'll get to "blow up" some marshmallows--with air. You might not "see" a gas like air, but could it help puff up a marshmallow? Be ready to have some fun and be surprised! In everyday life we observe materials in a solid, liquid or gaseous state. In solids and liquids the particles making up the material are densely packed. They cannot get much closer when pushed together, making the volume of a solid or liquid more or less fixed. On the other hand, the particles making up a gas spread out and occupy all the space they are given. There is often plenty of opportunity to squeeze these particles together and contain them in a smaller volume--or to give them more space and allow them to occupy a larger one. When confined to a smaller volume, these particles bang into the wall more often, creating more pressure on the walls (known as Boyle's law). When you keep the same confinement but increase the temperature, these particles start moving faster, banging more violently into the walls, again increasing the pressure on the walls (Gay-Lussac's law). When you manage to keep the pressure constant, an increase in temperature (or the more violent collisions) will cause the walls to move outward and the volume to expand (Charles' law). Now, what does this have to do with marshmallows? This sticky treat has air--which is a gas--trapped in a stretchy substance. This stretchiness allows the gas bubbles to expand and contract with changing pressure in the bubbles. Will the gas laws help us create a giant marshmallow? Try this activity to find out! Did you see the marshmallow puff up and expand? This is what the gas laws predict, as explained below. Marshmallows are made by frothing a solution of sugars and water into gelatin, trapping gas bubbles in the matrix. The gelatin makes the marshmallow stretchy. The gas in the bubbles pushes the gooey substance outward while the gas (or air) around the marshmallow pushes the substance inward, reaching stability at exactly the size of the marshmallow you popped out of the bag. By putting marshmallows in a jar or bottle and using the vacuum pump, you can remove gas around the marshmallows. The gas in the bubbles keeps pushing outward as less and less gas is available around the marshmallows to push back. The gas bubbles expand and the marshmallow puffs up. When air flows back into the jar or bottle, the gas bubbles need to give in under the increasing push on the marshmallow's outside walls, so they shrink back to their original size. This illustrates Boyle's law, which states that a gas expands if the pressure decreases while all other variables are kept constant. When heating a marshmallow in a microwave, some moisture inside the marshmallow evaporates, adding gas to the bubbles. In addition, a warmer gas pushes outward with more force. Both adding gas and heating cause the gas bubbles to expand, thereby causing the marshmallow to puff up. This is to be expected, knowing the following two gas laws (see "more to explore" below for additional background): Dalton's law states that a gas--when no other variables are changed--expands when more gas is added; and Charles' law states that a gas--when no other variables are changed--expands when its temperature is increased. If you used clean equipment, the marshmallows are safe to eat if you wish to do so. Wash all equipment with soapy water.  , from Smart Learning for All  , from Purdue University  , from Smithsonian.com  , from 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.