Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Genes that help harmful germs thrive in the warmth of the human body apparently arose from DNA that enables microbes to survive in superheated deep-sea vents. Scientists at the Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology compared the genomes of two deep-sea bacteria with those of , responsible for ulcers, and , the leading food-borne cause of diarrhea. According to the researchers, genes that likely help deep-sea bacteria maintain symbiotic relationships with other vent-dwelling organisms assist their gut-dwelling relatives in evading immune systems. Enzymes that help vent microbes live off hydrogen enable and to do the same in the digestive system. And like their harmful kin, deep-sea bacteria have few DNA repair genes, allowing frequent mutations to occur and enabling the microbes to adapt quickly to changing conditions or to resist immune responses. The researchers suggest the human-harming bugs evolved from deep-sea ancestors and later acquired more virulence factors while living in symbiosis with animals. The published the findings July 17. This article was originally published with the title "Ulcers from the Deep" in Scientific American  297, 3, 34 (September 2007) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0907-34c Charles Q. Choi is a frequent contributor to . His work has also appeared in and among others. In his spare time, he has traveled to all seven continents. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.