Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Attentive listening results in more relationship satisfaction than perspective-taking Well-meaning arguers often attempt to see things from their partner's point of view, but doing so can backfire, according to a paper in the January 2013 issue of the . In problem-solving discussions among 111 couples, researchers found that the person who attempted to take his or her partner's perspective had an increase in self-focus and overestimated how obvious his or her feelings were. After the discussion, the perspective-taking partner reported feeling less satisfied with the relationship in general, and the other partner reported no change in relationship satisfaction. When subjects were instead instructed to take an objective approach and pay close attention to the other person's behavior, satisfaction increased for both partners--probably because this approach fostered a sense of shared reality. "I think what is critical is paying attention to what the other person says and does, rather than trying to work it all out inside one's own head," says Jacquie Vorauer, one of the study's authors and a psychology professor at the University of Manitoba. This article was originally published with the title "Stay in Your Own Shoes" in SA Mind 25, 1, 11 (January 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0114-11c Tori Rodriguez is a journalist and psychotherapist based in Atlanta. Her writing has also appeared in the and . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.