Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Vocal anatomy may be the reason so few languages use these sounds Click sounds, such as those found in some languages in Africa, make perfectly good consonants. So why do they appear so rarely in most human speech? One culprit may be anatomy. Previous studies have suggested that in some speakers of click languages, the alveolar ridge--the rounded bump between the upper teeth and the roof of the mouth--is small or even absent. In recent research, Scott Moisik of Nanyang Technological University in Singapore and Dan Dediu of the Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics in Nijmegen, the Netherlands, built biomechanical models that simulated clicks in vocal tracts with alveolar ridges of varying sizes. Their results, published in January in the , showed a clear disadvantage for tracts with large ridges. These allowed less air to be trapped in the mouth and required more muscular force to produce a click. The authors interpret this finding as support for an anatomical bias against clicks. They believe the bias is probably weak at the individual level; people with large alveolar ridges can still learn click languages. Nevertheless, their models suggest that such individuals may find it difficult to learn click consonants or that their pronunciations may be different.* Amplified over generations, this bias might explain why such consonants are so rarely found in languages worldwide. These results are not the first to challenge the traditional premise among linguists that language evolution is largely immune to external factors. Several other researchers have recently argued that geographical context, environmental conditions and genetics could all play a role. But Moisik and Dediu's work goes a step further by singling out one feature of human anatomy and quantifying its contribution to a particular type of speech sound. Susanne Fuchs, senior researcher at the Leibniz Center of General Linguistics in Berlin, who was not involved in the work, says the study's conclusions are valid. But she cautions that they may present a chicken-and-egg problem: "The palate shape of an individual matures from early childhood to puberty and ... may be affected by frequent productions of clicks," Fuchs says. "Therefore, over the course of history, it may well be possible that vocal tract properties and click productions developed in parallel."  This article was originally published with the title "Speaking in Clicks" in Scientific American  317, 6, 15 (December 2017) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1217-15 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.