Read Our Latest Issue The Pentagon will spend upward of $1.5 billion for smaller, lighter and more reliable infrared countermeasure systems to keep U.S. choppers from being taken down by small arms and shoulder-fired missiles A heat-seeking missile bearing down on an aircraft zeros in on the infrared signature of its exhaust. In the past the aircraft might deploy flares or, if the plane was large enough, it might use a rudimentary laser to disrupt the incoming missile's guidance system. Neither of these approaches has proved reliable enough for the U.S. military's liking, which is why the Army is considering that uses a smaller, more nimble solid-state laser designed to better protect helicopters and other low-flying aircraft from small arms and shoulder-fired missile attacks such as those that are so prevalent in Afghanistan and Iraq .  The Army's choice of updated IRCM systems is expected in a few months, which is why several defense contractors developing this technology are making a serious push for consideration at this week's annual in Washington, D.C.  Whereas the U.S. military, led by the Army, has for decades used IRCM technology weighing several dozens of kilograms to disrupt heat-seeking missile attacks, the Army is hoping a newer, lighter approach called Common Infrared Countermeasures (CIRCM) will more reliably . To meet the Army's 38.6-kilogram CIRCM weight limit, some contractors are turning to solid-state as a means of disrupting a missile's guidance system and throwing it off course.  Quantum cascade lasers, , are semiconductor lasers that emit in the mid- to far-infrared portion of the electromagnetic spectrum. Such lasers can be made smaller, lighter and more reliable than the optical parametric oscillator , the multiband laser OPO, and the fiber laser-pumped systems used in current IRCM systems. This is because a quantum cascade laser directly converts electrons entering the semiconductor to photons. (Multiple photons can even be generated by a single electron, improving the system's efficiency.) Other types of lasers require more complicated setups for generating the wavelengths needed to target missile-guidance systems. In addition, semiconductor lasers can be manufactured at about 4.5 millimeters in length in high volumes on wafers similar to the way transistors are produced. A conventional glass OPO laser could be up to half a meter long.  ITT Electronics Systems ( )--competing for the Army contract against BAE Systems, Northrop Grumman and Raytheon Co.--is proposing a CIRCM using a solid-state quantum cascade laser system developed by Daylight Solutions. The system, which as part of its CIRCM bid, features a low-wattage semiconductor laser much like those found in DVD and CD players, although the CIRCM laser emits invisible wavelengths rather than optical red light, says Tim Day, president and CEO of Daylight Solutions.   ITT and Daylight have worked together in the past, with ITT integrating an earlier version of Daylight's fiber-coupled quantum cascade-based JammIR laser system into its IRCM technology. The companies claim to have conducted several successful flight tests  on board U.S. military .  ITT has taken a modular approach to its CIRCM in an effort to make the system available to a wider range of aircraft. "We tried to make the system extremely flexible, having multiple boxes so we divide up the functionality, putting the lasers in one box, the pointer trackers in another and the power supply in still another box installed on the aircraft," says Bob Palazzo, ITT Electronic Systems' director of advanced programs. "We interconnect the boxes with a fiber-optic cable so they can be placed throughout the aircraft and provide a more balanced weight distribution."  Raytheon claims its CIRCM is seven kilograms less than the Army's requirement, --although this was not an Army requirement at this time.  The Army is looking to equip 1,076 aircraft with CIRCM systems initially at an estimated cost of $1 billion to $1.5 billion. If the CIRCM implementations are successful, the number of aircraft--primarily light- to medium-weight helicopters--outfitted with the technology is expected to grow to as many as 4,000. The Army is expected to choose to move on to the technology development phase of the program.   Larry Greenemeier is the associate editor of technology for , covering a variety of tech-related topics, including biotech, computers, military tech, nanotech and robots. Credit: Nick Higgins October 5, 2011  --  Larry Greenemeier September 2, 2011  --  Larry Greenemeier September 6, 2011  --  Larry Greenemeier August 25, 2011 Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.