Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Scientists engineered the bacterium to produce psilocybin Studying psychedelics was taboo for decades, but in recent years drugs such as psilocybin--the active ingredient in "magic mushrooms"--have shown promise in clinical trials for treating conditions from depression to nicotine addiction. Growing the mushrooms can take months and is not practical for pharmaceutical production, however, and chemically synthesizing psilocybin is a costly and intensive process. Now scientists have successfully engineered bacteria to produce the mind-bending drug. The modified microbes generated up to 1.16 grams of psilocybin per liter of culture medium--the highest yield to date from any engineered organism and a 10-fold increase over the next best attempt. Scaled up, the new method could produce psilocybin for potential therapeutic use. "The number-one advantage is it's simply cheaper" than--or at least cost-competitive with--other methods, says lead study author Alexandra Adams, an undergraduate student in chemical engineering at Miami University in Ohio. Furthermore, "it's easier to manipulate than other organisms," she says. Adams and her colleagues engineered that incorporated three genes from the mushroom, enabling the bacteria to synthesize psilocybin from the cheap and easily obtainable precursor molecule 4-hydroxyindole, and then they optimized the process to produce the drug on a larger scale. They reported their results last December in . Dirk Hoffmeister, a pharmaceutical microbiologist at Friedrich Schiller University in Germany, who led a team that previously produced psilocybin via an engineered fungus, called the study "an intriguing alternative and proof of principle" that shows "the power and possibilities of synthetic biology." Nevertheless, the engineered bacteria could potentially produce toxic or allergenic microbial material that would need to be removed by purification, says Hoffmeister, who was not involved in the new study. According to Adams, manufacturers could avoid this risk by using industrial techniques already proved for bacterially produced drugs such as antibiotics or insulin. Medicinal chemist David Nichols of Purdue University, who was also not involved in the work, says the technique's yield is impressive. But he notes that the approach requires a particular precursor chemical, rather than making psilocybin from even simpler starting materials. Senior study author Andrew Jones, a chemical and biological engineer at Miami University, aims to eventually synthesize psilocybin from glucose. He and his colleagues are talking with several companies about licensing the team's method for commercial use. Psilocybin can be therapeutically effective after just one dose. But given how many people have depression and other mental health disorders, the potential market for such treatments is substantial. "If it were approved for everything it's being tested for," Jones says, "that's a significant proportion of the population." This article was originally published with the title " High" in Scientific American  322, 1, 16 (January 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0120-16a Tanya Lewis is a senior editor at who covers health and medicine. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.