Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue In addition to three-dimensional control, a new printer builds things from several different materials, not just one Scientists in the US have added with a strategy that controls the chemical composition of printed features, as well as their three-dimensional position. With 3D printing systems becoming more mainstream, platforms that overcome their current limitations are increasingly relevant. Ideally, they should print different polymers close together, independently control their position and be compatible with delicate organic and biologically active materials. A team at the University of Miami led by has designed such a system involving entirely solution-based patterning reactions for the first time. It combines 1cm2 parallel tip arrays, microfluidics and photochemical polymerisations to grow brush polymers on a glass surface. The process itself takes just a few steps and achieves sub-micrometre resolution without using high-energy beams. Components of the polymerisation reaction--monomer, photoinitiator and solvent--flow into a microfluidic cell fitted with a tip array. Each array has around 15,000 polydimethylsiloxane pyramids spaced at 80mm intervals, which localise light shone onto them. This light initiates the reaction, making patterns of brush polymers on the surface below. To create an adjacent pattern of different chemical composition, the tips are simply moved, a new monomer solution introduced to the rinsed cell and the process repeated. Tip position controls the location of a printed feature, light exposure duration the degree of polymerisation and therefore height, while monomer identity determines the chemical composition. Braunschweig sees huge potential for their 4D printing process, with possible applications including gene chips, protein arrays and stimuli responsive surfaces. The ultimate goal is recreating the architectural complexity and chemical properties of biological interfaces like the cell surface over large areas: 'We're still a long way off, but that is the motivation for our work.' , who heads a nanofabrication research group at the University of Groningen in the Netherlands, reinforces the significance of this work: 'It allows local control of the interactions of adjacent polymeric features with, for example, cells whose properties can be drastically affected by both the surface chemistry and topology of a substrate in ways that we are only beginning to understand.' 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.