Read Our Latest Issue Physicists prove that an atom can be
in two different places at once Although somewhat smaller than a cat,
the cation is still much larger than the electrons, photons and
other particles that commonly exhibit bizarre quantum behavior. In
a report in the May 24 issue of the NIST team expresses the hope that their "mesoscopic system may
provide insight into the fuzzy boundary between the classical
and quantum worlds." Schroedinger devised the cat
experiment to illustrate just how radically the quantum realm
differs from the macroscopic, everyday world that we inhabit. He
himself had shown that a particle such as an electron exists in a
number of possible states, the probability of each of which is
incorporated into an equation known as the wave function. In the
case of an atom of radioactive material, for example, the atom has
a certain probability of decaying over a given period of time. Based onour "classical" intuition, we would assume that there
are only two possibilities: either the atom has decayed, or it has
not. According to quantum physics, however, the atom inhabits
both states simultaneously. It is only when an observer
actually tries to determine the state of the atom by measuring it
that the wave function "collapses," and the atom assumes just one
of its possible states: decayed or undecayed. Schroedinger
reasoned that such probabilistic behavior could exist in the
macroscopic world as well, even if we are rarely aware of it. He
imagined a box containing an atom having a 50 percent likelihood
of decaying in an hour, a radiation detector, a flask containing
poison gas and a cat. When or if the atom decays, the Geiger
counter will trigger a switch that causes a hammer to smash the
flask, releasing the gas and killing the cat. When the
experimenter opens the lid of the box and peers inside after an
hour has passed, he or she will find the atom either intact or
decayed and the cat either alive or dead. But according to quantum
mechanics, during the period before the lid is opened, the cat
exists in two superposed states: both dead and alive. During the
1980s, the late theorist John Bell suggested a more palatable
version of Schroedinger's experiment, one in which the decay of
the atom causes a bottle of milk to spill onto the floor; the
superposed cat is thus hungry or full rather than alive or dead.
But either version seems weirdly nonsensical: the outcome seems
logical from a quantum physics viewpoint, but common sense tells
us that a cat cannot be alive and dead (or hungry and full) at the
same time. The paradox of Schroedinger's cat has provoked a
great deal of debate among theoretical physicists and
philosophers. Although some thinkers have argued that the cat
actually does exist in two superposed states, most contend that
superposition only occurs when a quantum system is isolated from
the rest of its environment. Various explanations have been
advanced to account for this paradox--including the idea that the
cat, or simply the animal's physical environment, can act as an
observer. The question is, at what point, or scale, do the
probabilistic rules of the quantum realm give way to the
deterministic laws that govern the macroscopic world? This
question has been brought into vivid relief by the recent work
done by the NIST team, which includes Christopher
Monroe, Dawn Meekhof, Brian King and Dave Wineland. The group
confined a charged beryllium atom in a tiny electromagnetic cage
and then cooled it with a laser to its lowest energy state. In
this state the position of the atom and its "spin" (a quantum
property that is only metaphorically analogous to spin in the
ordinary sense) could be ascertained to within a very high degree
of accuracy, limited by Heisenberg's
uncertainty principle. The workers then stimulated the atom
with a laser just enough to change its wave function; according to
the new wave function of the atom, it now had a 50 percent
probability of being in a "spin-up" state in its initial position
and an equal probability of being in a "spin-down" state in a
position as much as 80 nanometers away, a vast distance indeed for
the atomic realm. In effect, the atom was in two different places,
as well as two different spin states, at the same time--an atomic
analog of a cat both living and dead. (The clinching evidence
that the NIST researchers had achieved their goal came from their
observation of an interference pattern; that phenomenon is a
telltale sign that a single beryllium atom produced two distinct
wave functions that interfered with each other.) The NIST
investigators are planning experiments that will probe more deeply
into the process by which superposed systems "decohere," losing
their schizoid qualities and giving way to more mundane classical
behavior. Monroe says he and his colleagues hope both to coax
single ions into a superposition of three or more states and to
manipulate two or more ions in the same trap. If the past is any
guide, these experiments will not resolve the mystery of quantum
mechanics but will only underscore just how deeply it seems to
contradict our usual expectations. As Niels Bohr was
fond of saying of quantum mechanics, "If you think you understand
it, that only shows you don't know the first thing about
it." John Horgan directs the Center for Science Writings at the Stevens Institute of Technology. His books include , and , available for free at . For many years, he wrote the immensely popular blog for . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.