Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The 45th president may still name a different permanent director WASHINGTON--Dr. is being held over as the director of the National Institutes of Health by the Trump administration, his office announced Thursday afternoon. Collins had been prepared to step down from the post on Friday, after Trump's inauguration, and return to his lab at the NIH Bethesda campus. However, with Thursday's news, he will remain as director for the time being. It is not yet known whether Trump will permanently reappoint Collins to be his NIH director for his full term. Collin's office directed all further questions to the Trump transition. Collins has met with Trump in New York in recent days and is known to be interested in staying on as director in the new administration. Congressman of Maryland and Dr. , a biotech billionaire, have also met with Trump and have been rumored to be in consideration for NIH director. Collins has served as NIH director since 2009, and has support among many prominent Republican lawmakers on Capitol Hill. He has said that if he leaves the post, he will likely return to the NIH lab he previously led. STAT delivers fast, deep, and tough-minded journalism. We take you inside science labs and hospitals, biotech boardrooms, and political backrooms. We dissect crucial discoveries. We examine controversies and puncture hype. We hold individuals and institutions accountable. We introduce you to the power brokers and personalities who are driving a revolution in human health. These are the stories that matter to us all. Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.