Read Our Latest Issue If you find yourself taking headache medication more often than you'd like, try these drug-free approaches next time a headache looms  Scientific American Crista posted a question on the Nutrition Diva Facebook page, wondering whether there are any alternatives to Tylenol or ibuprofen for headaches. "I get terrible sinus and sometimes migraine headaches," she writes, "and I take WAY too much Tylenol/ibuprofen." There are several heavy-duty drugs that have been approved for the treatment of migraines and chronic headaches, as well as over-the-counter pain relievers, such as the ones Crista mentioned. But many headache sufferers would prefer to use drug-free approaches--and I don't blame them. Prescription medications can be expensive and many of them have serious safety risks. Even over-the-counter drugs can have unwelcome side effects. Here are my best tips for relieving headache pain without drugs. Next week, I'll have some diet and nutrition tips that can help you prevent those headaches from starting in the first place.  A moderate dose of caffeine can also help relieve a headache (especially the type that cause throbbing or pounding) by constricting the blood vessels that go to the head. You can drink a caffeinated beverage or take a caffeine pill such as No-Doz. If you do take your caffeine in pill form, be sure to drink plenty of fluids with it. Although caffeinated beverages aren't dehydrating, caffeine pills can be. As a bonus, caffeine also enhances the effectiveness of over-the-counter pain relievers like aspirin or Tylenol. In fact, one popular headache remedy (Excedrin) combines Tylenol, aspirin and caffeine--something to keep in mind if it's close to bedtime. If it's too late in the day for caffeine (or you don't "do" caffeine), an icepack applied to the forehead or temples can also restrict blood vessels and relieve headache pain. Although working out may be the last thing you feel like doing with a headache coming on, aerobic exercise can actually abort an impending headache, perhaps by stimulating the production of pain-reducing neurotransmitters. A stationary bike may be better than jogging because it avoids impact that can aggravate a pounding head. Monica Reinagel, MS,LD/N, CNS, is a board-certified, licensed nutritionist and professionally trained chef, author of , and host of the podcast on Quick and Dirty Tips. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.