Read Our Latest Issue Chemist Michael Graetzel of the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Lausanne developed these dye-sensitized cells more than a decade ago. Made from cheap, abundant components, these cells use a titanium dioxide dye to turn 11 percent of incoming light into electricity--close to the efficiency of standard solar cells used by homeowners today as shown in the photo. Even so, these cells did not find widespread use, primarily because they contained toxic liquids that easily evaporated if not contained. But Graetzel and his colleagues recently discovered that by substituting ionic liquids--liquids made up of charged particles, imidazolium iodide in this case--they could maintain the efficiency and pose no risk of evaporation. With such solvent issues out of the way, the dye-sensitized cell offers several advantages, according to its creator. "You can look through them," Graetzel notes. "Our cell is not dependent on the angle of light either. It captures light from all angles." These properties make the cells ideal for things like windows or roofs, although they are probably less suitable for large-scale commercial applications, such as solar farms, because they need more area to produce the same amount of electricity as more typical silicon-based solar cells. But additional research presented at the meeting may boost their efficiency: teams from Tokyo University of Science and Notre Dame both revealed new types of dyes that could extend the spectrum of light captured by such cells into the infrared range. The Tokyo team relied on a dye composed largely of ruthenium to absorb infrared light, though it overlaps too closely with the titanium dye already involved. The Notre Dame researchers, on the other hand, used organic compounds--acetylene and ethylene--to attempt to extend the range of the cells. With or without such improvements, such cells may start appearing in various applications in the next few years, according to Graetzel. But the see-through, reddish cells still have a long way to go to match the light-harvesting power of the original solar cell: green plants. David Biello is a contributing editor at . March 29, 2002  --  Sarah Graham November 10, 2003  --  Sarah Graham April 30, 2001  --  Naomi Lubick September 15, 2003  --  Sarah Graham September 1, 2006  --  Gary Stix Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.