Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the July 2016 issue of In "How to Find Another Earth" [Advances], Lee Billings reports on NASA's Wide-Field Infrared Survey Telescope (WFIRST) and a "starshade" that the agency is considering using to help it image other Earths. Billings describes the two as tens of thousands of kilometers apart. Their desired relative positions are a matter of calculations that, by now, may be almost routine. But the precise relative positions of objects so far apart must be a daunting requirement. Has this been worked out? KEN KNOWLTON  . . When doing research with human subjects, the control group is crucial. In "The Brain-Boosting Power of Video Games," Daphne Bavelier and C. Shawn Green describe how they used participation in a "social game" to compare with their treatment: participation in a computer action game. If those are the only two choices, their results are trivial. What about comparing participation in computer games with equal time in such activities as playing tennis, building a fort, cooking dinner or even reading a book? I don't doubt that computer games improve some cognitive skills. The problem is that they appear to be replacing every other childhood activity. And comparing the effects of participation in one kind of game with another isn't useful science, although I'm sure it makes the CEOs of the game corporations very happy. LAKE MCCLENNEY  . Reading through John Pavlus's article "Bipedal Metal," I can find no explanation of why a robot should have two legs (apart from possible application to human prostheses) like the ones he reports on. It seems that a three- or four-legged robot would be more stable and better able to negotiate rough terrain. And there is no reason why it couldn't have just one arm. Are we following the pattern of science-fiction writers who assumed an alien creature would follow the contingent human body type? MICHAEL I. SOBEL  . I was astonished and exasperated in almost equal measures by "Our Place in the Cosmos," Noam I. Libeskind and R. Brent Tully's article on the Laniakea supercluster of galaxies, which includes the Milky Way. Astonished by the scale and beauty but frustrated because the authors discuss methods for determining the galaxies' radial peculiar velocities (those relative to their motion from cosmic expansion), but they give no hint of how they estimate the galaxies' transverse velocities (those perpendicular to the line of sight). Without knowing the latter, we have no way of appreciating how reliable the conclusions they draw are. PAUL FRIEDLANDER  . . Ellen Ruppel Shell's article on "Gauging the Effects of Lead" [The Science of Health] brings some calm scientific perspective to the discussion on the effects of low-level lead exposure and the means by which blood-level standards are set. I lived nearly my entire childhood a few miles downwind of a lead smelter. My personal observation, though clearly not a scientific study, is that my exposed peers and I have developed normally. I am not suggesting that lead exposure shouldn't be avoided or mitigated but that there is a substantial adult population with similar childhood conditions who should be studied. Even without precise blood-level measurements, reasonable estimates of these exposures could be made from residual soil levels, production records, exposure levels from smelters operating in developing countries and other sources. Studies checking for the possible effects in such exposed populations could provide a wealth of data. BERNARD STEBLAY  . This article was originally published with the title "Letters" in Scientific American  315, 5, 6-7 (November 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1116-6 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.