Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A new animation, the "Temperature Circle," shows every nation on the planet is now in the red . This year, it's the temperature circle that's making the trend of global warming crystal clear. A new video shows the rhythm of global warming for countries around the world, from Afghanistan to Zimbabwe. Bars representing each country's annual average temperature anomaly pulse up and down. It's like watching a heartbeat on a monitor. . While there are individual variations in how hot any year is, the signal of climate change is unmistakable. , a physicist at the Finnish Meteorological Institute who made the graphic. "The warming really is global, not local." to show individual countries separated by regions. The format invites you to look for your country or the place you took your vacation last year. But step back to look at the graphic as a whole and it's clear we're all in this together. No country is immune from rising temperatures, let alone the other impacts of climate change. It's also clear that global warming is accelerating. In the past three decades (which starts around the 14-second mark in the video), the bars start pushing further and further from the center. Cooler-than-normal years start to become more rare and by the 1990s, they've almost disappeared completely. . A number of countries were more than 2degC warmer than the 1951-1980 baseline used in the graphic. That puts them well above the warming limit , serving as a warning of how fast we're pushing into new territory. for a few months in 2016. If global warming permanently crosses that threshold, it will likely cause small island states to be swallowed by the sea, coral to die and heat waves to become more common and severe. Those numbers alone are abstract, though. Even plotted on a line graph, they fail to fully convey the trajectory we're on. Lipponen said he made the animation because he wanted a "nice looking, clear, and informative" way to convey that information in a way people can understand. Mission accomplished. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.