Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Earth's oceans hold four billion tons of the element used to power nuclear plants The earth's oceans hold enough uranium to power all the world's major cities for thousands of years--if we can extract it. A project funded by the U.S. Department of Energy is making notable advances in this quest: scientists at Oak Ridge National Laboratory and Pacific Northwest National Laboratory have developed a material that can effectively pull uranium out of seawater. The material builds on work by researchers in Japan and consists of braided polyethylene fibers coated with the chemical amidoxime. In seawater, amidoxime attracts and binds uranium dioxide to the surface of the braids, which can be on the order of 15 centimeters in diameter and run multiple meters in length depending on where they are deployed. Later, an acidic treatment recovers the uranium in the form of uranyl ions, a product that requires processing and enrichment before becoming fuel. The procedure was described in a special report this spring in . The process is still inefficient and expensive, but finding alternatives to uranium ore mining is a necessary step in planning for the future of nuclear energy, says Stephen Kung of the DOE's Office of Nuclear Energy, who was not involved in the project. Terrestrial sources of uranium are expected to last for only another 100 to 200 more years. "We need to take the longer view on this resource," Kung says. Concentration of uranium in seawater Total uranium available in all Earth's seawater Weight of uranium extracted per kilogram of adsorbent material Time required to extract 6 grams Amount of uranium fuel needed to run a 1-gigawatt nuclear power plant for one year This article was originally published with the title "Water Power" in Scientific American  315, 1, 17 (July 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0716-17 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.