Read Our Latest Issue Marine animals tend to be more peripatetic than landlubbers are so it was unclear whether a wide variety of large species would congregate together in a single area. Although scientists suspected certain regions would be richer in species than others, their concentrations had not been quantified. Boris Worm of the Institute for Marine Science in Kiel, Germany and his colleagues analyzed logbook records and information collected by independent observers to track species abundance in the world's oceans. They found that large oceanic predators congregate in hotspots, particularly in intermediate latitudes between 20 and 30 degrees North and South where both temperate and tropical species can thrive. In addition, the variety of habitat and abundance of nutrients that accompany features such as reefs, islands and underwater mountains support the majority of hotspots. The results build on the findings published last year that showed 34 percent of the world's small marine creatures that have restricted ranges can be found in just 0.012 percent of the ocean's total area, making these areas ideal candidates to garner protected status. Worm and his colleagues also used a computer model to investigate the potential effects of instituting no-fishing zones that coincide with the newfound hotspots. Because the areas have a high number of species, but lower numbers of each type of animal, they are ideal candidates for fishing bans that could safequard threatened creatures while not greatly impacting the overall catch, the researchers suggest. They conclude that "the seemingly monotonous landscape of the open ocean shows rich structure in species diversity and that these features should be used to focus future conservation efforts." February 15, 2002  --  Greg Mone January 5, 2001  --  Kate Wong July 27, 2001  --  Sarah Graham Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.