Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A survey of leaders shows growing concern over consequences of science and technology The economy has dominated the headlines for years, but unforeseen consequences of life sciences and climate change mitigation are also beginning to weigh heavily on people's minds. The World Economic Forum experts and industry leaders have gauged the likelihood and potential impact of 50 risks of global significance (the 2013 came out in January). We have arranged each risk according to how much views have changed in the past year (with the biggest combined increase in estimated likelihood and potential impact at the upper left of the page); orange shading highlights science and technology concerns. Population, species loss, weapons of mass destruction, pollution and information technology figure prominently. Climate change, including worries over greenhouse gas emissions and adaptation, also factor in significantly.  Credit: ; SOURCE: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM  For an interactive version of the report, see This article was originally published with the title "Rising Risks" in Scientific American  308, 2, 82 (February 2013) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0213-82 Fred Guterl is the executive editor of and author of (Bloomsbury). Guterl is former deputy editor of . His writing and editing have contributed to numerous awards and nominations from the American Society of Magazine Editors. His article "Riddles in the Sand," in , was named best magazine article in 1998 by the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and his article "The Wasteland," on Russia's plan to accept the world's nuclear waste, was honored by the Overseas Press Club for environmental writing. Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.