Read Our Latest Issue A culinary challenge from Science Buddies Human biology Senses Taste Smell Food Science Have you ever tasted a piece of warm apple pie or a cup of hot chocolate milk--and then had them after they cooled? Maybe you even prefer to have these treats at room temperature. Why is this? Can flavor change even when you are not adding ingredients? Try this activity, and discover how temperature influences flavor! Our experience with flavor starts in our mouth. There the particles in food that are responsible for taste activate our taste buds. When these taste buds are triggered they send a signal to our brain, and we perceive a particular flavor. Humans have thousands of taste buds; they are mainly located on the tip and upper parts of the tongue. They help to distinguish at least five basic tastes: sweet, salty, savory (umami), bitter and sour--and provide information on the intensity of each of these. Our experience with flavor does not end in the mouth. It is also influenced by our sense of smell. Food also releases scent particles. When these particles float into our nose they activate our smell receptors. These receptors send a signal to our brain, and we perceive a particular smell. Humans have several million specialized smell receptors; they are mainly located in our nasal cavity. When food is heated it releases a burst of these particles. That is why you can easily smell the delicious pie baking in the oven or a hearty soup cooking on the stove. Our brain combines the signals from our taste buds with those received from our smell receptors to produce the broad sensation of flavor that we are familiar with. Scientists have found that taste buds work more efficiently at warmer temperatures than at colder ones. Does that make us perceive the flavor of warm food more intensely? Try this activity to find out!   Did you notice the flavor of food changes as it undergoes a change in temperature? Our sense of taste is more sensitive to warm food than to cold food. That is why the frozen ice cream probably tasted just sweet enough, whereas the melted version probably tasted much too sweet. Similarly the frozen chocolate probably had very little taste until it warmed up in your mouth. The intensity of the taste increased as the food warmed up. The smell might have become stronger, but probably not drastically. If you tried the activity with food that had been heated, such as warm milk, you probably noticed that the intensity of the smell increased along with the intensity of the flavor. Foods are prepared to be eaten at a certain temperature. When people prepare meals they aim for the temperature the food will be served at that gives the desired flavor. In addition to flavor, however, people also think about the texture of food. So if the flavor of your pepperoni pizza is too strong, or if you want your ice-cream to taste a little sweeter, cooling it or heating it might not be the ideal solution.  , from Live Science  from Science Buddies  , from  , from Science Buddies  from  , from Science Buddies 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.