Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Misshapen proteins called prions lie at the root of mad cow disease and similar brain ailments, but the role of these molecules in their normal form remains unclear. In humans, normal prion proteins may generally protect against Alzheimer's disease. In Alzheimer's, abnormally folded beta-amyloid protein accumulates in the brain. Biochemist Nigel Hooper of the University of Leeds in England and his colleagues found that high levels of normal prion proteins in human cells prevent beta-amyloid formation by inhibiting an enzyme called beta-secretase. The brains of mice genetically modified to lack normal prion proteins had significantly higher beta-amyloid levels. Hooper says that prion proteins might prevent Alzheimer's from occurring earlier than it usually does in life or that perhaps they guard against oxidative stress, which has been linked to Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative diseases. Further research could lead to new drugs that target beta-secretase, he adds. The team reports its findings in the June 26 . This article was originally published with the title "Prions against Alzheimer's" in Scientific American  297, 3, 36 (September 2007) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0907-36b Charles Q. Choi is a frequent contributor to . His work has also appeared in and among others. In his spare time, he has traveled to all seven continents. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.