Read Our Latest Issue Is $100-a-barrel oil here to stay? Brace yourselves, drivers. It's going to be a very expensive ride. The price of oil topped $130 a barrel this morning on the world market. Prices then ticked up following release of a weekly U.S. Department of Energy report, which found that national were lower than expected last week. At the time of this writing, the New York Mercantile Exchange listed the at $133.58 per barrel.  Contributing to the record price: the weak U.S. dollar, greater demand for diesel fuel following last week's devastating as well as increased spending on gasoline by U.S. drivers, according to . On Friday, Saudi Arabian officials rejected President Bush's on grounds that the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), the oil-producer cartel of which the country is a member, had already boosted production earlier this month and that speculation by investors was driving the surge in , up more than 30 percent since the start of the year.  London newspaper the  that $100-a-barrel oil prices could be here to stay--or might soar even higher, noting that long-term oil future prices have risen unusually sharply and that several analysts' predict tabs approaching $200 a barrel in coming years. Geologists and economists fear that despite seemingly plentiful , oil production may peak and begin to decline early (a phenomenon referred to as after the American geophysicist M. King Hubbert). Researchers worry that a sharp spike in oil prices would follow such a peak unless counteracted by falling demand.  Investors "are starting to believe that the world is going to run out of oil," says , an energy investment analyst with Alaron, a global futures-trading firm. But he says the price run-up can only last so long. "These kind of markets end like thieves in the night," he says. "You never know when it's going to end. ... But have no doubt that it's going to end."  When gasoline prices hit $3 per gallon at the pump in 2005 in the wake of hurricanes Katrina and Rita, urged lawmakers to consider raising the federal gas tax and to require American automakers to boost for cars and light trucks by 40 percent over the next decade. Late last month, presidential hopefuls John McCain and Hillary Clinton endorsed a gas tax "holiday" over the summer, which professional economists roundly .  In its September 2006 special issue on the , analyzed a suite of potential energy-saving measures, including nuclear power, alternative fuels and sources of renewable energy. JR Minkel was a news reporter for . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.