Read Our Latest Issue Objects with icosahedral symmetry occur in nature only at microscopic scales, including quasicrystals, many viruses and some beautiful protozoa in the radiolarian family From ( ). Mathematicians classify objects by their symmetries. If you turn a five-armed starfish a fifth of a revolution, it looks unchanged, so it has a five-fold rotational symmetry axis. Objects like a soccer ball, which has five-fold rotation axes (through the black pentagons) and three-fold rotation axes (through the white hexagons), are said to have " ." The arrangement of rotations which leave the objects looking unchanged is the same as that of a regular icosahedron. It is an unexplained fact that objects with icosahedral symmetry occur in nature only at microscopic scales. Examples include quasicrystals, many viruses, the carbon-60 molecule, and some beautiful protozoa in the radiolarian family. Luckily, we humans can make our own human-scale examples, so everyone can see and appreciate this lovely symmetry group. However, nature's radiolarian examples are the most stunning instances of icosahedral symmetry and well worth a careful look.  Credits: Radiolarian images from Ernst Haeckel's "Art Forms in Nature," 1899-1904. Quasicrystal images from Wikipedia and Stanford University. Virus images from . Related: More videos from the .   7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.