Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Anyone walking into a smoker's abode can
tell you that the traces of tobacco use don't
vanish when a cigarette is extinguished.
Does this so-called thirdhand smoke
pose a health hazard? Researchers
at Lawrence Berkeley National
Laboratory found that remnants
of cigarette smoke
don't just inertly settle onto
surfaces. Instead the leftover
nicotine can react
with nitrous acid vapor, an
environmentally common
chemical emitted from gas
appliances and vehicles, among
other sources. The reaction produces
carcinogenic compounds known as
tobacco-specific nitrosamines (TSNAs).
Secondhand smoke itself contains
TSNAs, but the presence of nitrous acid in an environment can increase their numbers
by several times in the hours after smoking
has ceased. And because nicotine can linger
on surfaces for weeks or months, this
form of exposure might be even
more persistent than firsthand
or secondhand smoke, with the
TSNAs being inhaled, ingested
and dermally absorbed into the
body. Children are likely to be
the population most vulnerable
to thirdhand smoke, just as
they are for the secondhand
variety. The findings, published
online February 8 by the , are preliminary, and more
research remains to be done to determine
if thirdhand smoke has definite human
health implications. This article was originally published with the title "Carcinogens Detected from Thirdhand Smoke" in Scientific American  302, 4, 29 (April 2010) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0410-29 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.