Read Our Latest Issue checked out New York City's annual ode to homemade robots, 3-D printers and dozens of other DIY technologies The chill in the air last weekend was a reminder that fall has arrived in New York City. Time for the leaves to turn colors, for the stifling subway stations to air out and for hundreds of do-it-yourself tech enthusiasts to descend on the New York Hall of Science in the Borough of Queens for the annual . For the seventh time in as many years the science center was converted into an indoor/outdoor ode to the DIY movement, this year featuring mammoth 3-D printers, homemade droids and acres of hands-on activities. More than 200 Maker Faires are held worldwide each year, purporting to showcase technologies that empower people to build things they cannot--or would rather not--buy. The events' main appeal is that they let hobbyists, students and those in search of technological oddities get their hands on not just finished products but also the components used to create them. Tech companies have for years talked up "wearable" computers that fit into clothing and jewelry. At the World Maker Faire, let visitors to its booth tinker with larger versions of the accelerometer and gyroscope modules and circuit boards that enable wearables to track their own movement and orientation. Start-ups also thrive at maker events, where they can demonstrate their technologies in person rather than simply through videos posted to an online campaign for crowdfunding. , one of the most prominent crowdfunding Web sites, featured several newcomers at its booth--including the , a desktop water jet capable of cutting through titanium. Larry Greenemeier is the associate editor of technology for , covering a variety of tech-related topics, including biotech, computers, military tech, nanotech and robots. Credit: Nick Higgins August 22, 2016  --  Prachi Patel September 20, 2011  --  Krystal D'Costa April 1, 2013  --  Katherine Harmon Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.