Read Our Latest Issue In addition to its direct contribution to global warming, ozone may worsen climate change by preventing plant growth that would otherwise capture carbon dioxide Ozone (O ) is bad for people and plants. When lingering near the top of the atmosphere, the O molecule provides cover from energetic radiation but closer to the ground it can choke lungs and blight leaves. In addition, O is a greenhouse gas, helping to trap heat and warm the earth, and new research shows that it plays an even larger role in global warming by destroying plants' ability to use extra carbon dioxide. Climatologist Stephen Sitch of the Met Office Hadley Centre for Climate Prediction and Research in Exeter, England, and his colleagues used a climate model to examine the impact of rising O levels. "If ozone continues to increase, vegetation will take up less and less of our carbon dioxide emissions, which will leave more CO in the atmosphere, adding to global warming," Sitch says. Ground-level O produced by the burning of fossil fuels chokes plants, which "breathe" by inhaling CO through stomata--pores on their leaves --and exhaling oxygen. But O can also get into a plant through these stomata and, once in, shutter the opening. In fact, ground-level O is blamed for as much as $3 billion in crop damages annually in the U.S. The researchers plotted O levels that would increase to an average of 40 parts per billion (ppb) everywhere--and 70 ppb in Eurasia, North America, Brazil and East Asia by 2100--against CO emissions that would quintuple by that time. Because CO can aid the growth of plants--and close down stomata as well to protect against O invasion--it was unclear how vegetation worldwide would respond to such an increase in emissions of both CO and O . While plants did grow more under these conditions, they did not grow as much as they would have in the absence of higher O levels, the researchers report in this week's . In effect, O delivers global warming via two routes: the 0.35 watt-per-meter-squared (w/m ) extra heat it traps directly and the as much as 15 percent less vegetation that grows worldwide as a result of O damage. This translates into more CO in the atmosphere and therefore more warming, with estimates ranging from 0.62 w/m to 1.09 w/m . "The indirect effect makes ozone the second most important anthropogenic greenhouse gas after carbon dioxide," Sitch says. The researchers have predicted that increasing smog would prevent as much as 263 billion metric tons of carbon from being taken out of the atmosphere by plants over the past and coming century, though this depends on how tropical plants respond to O pollution. Studies have only been conducted on the effects of O on temperate plants thus far. "The CO fertilization of photosynthesis, which seems to be largely responsible for the global land carbon sink, could be heavily suppressed by O increases," Sitch notes, especially if tropical plants are as sensitive as temperate ones to smog. And that makes controlling O pollution from fossil fuel burning as important for climate change as it is for human and plant health. David Biello is a contributing editor at . November 28, 2006  --  David Biello April 18, 2007  --  David Biello May 31, 2006  --  David Biello November 21, 2006  --  David Biello Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.