Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Science fiction has imagined some pretty wild ideas about the universe and our place in it. Parallel or alternative universes have been a recurrent theme in . In , an astronaut explores hidden extra dimensions. and other movies have depicted ordinary life on Earth as nothing but a holographic or mental projection. But these imaginings all seem downright tame compared with the mind-bending science now coming out of physics and astronomy. The weirdness begins at the moment of creation. We have long thought of the big bang as the beginning of time, but theorists now have an idea of what might have come before. Could our 3-D universe have sprung from the formation of a black hole in a 4-D cosmos? The math says: . Then again, black holes might be quite different from the conventional picture of a point-like singularity surrounded by an invisible event horizon--the boundary beyond which escape is impossible. As physicist , the laws of quantum physics suggest instead that black holes may literally be large, spherical holes devoid of space and time. If so, then event horizons might actually be solid shells. And they should be quite visible, seething with an intense, instantly lethal fire of high-energy particles. Increasingly, it seems as though hardly anything out there is what it first appears to be. The first stars to form may have been so huge they arguably . Our own Milky Way galaxy has a skewering its center that no one noticed until recently. Even our most fundamental notions of are now --although there may be less dramatic ways to interpret the seen in the quantum realm. Much of this new science is made possible by technological innovations. They include 5,000-odd sensors frozen deep within a cubic kilometer of crystal-clear ice in --an array that might shine light on the puzzling nature of . Scientists are also dissecting molecules with the in the world and using a 570-megapixel camera to scan the heavens for clues to the . And don't forget the most useful tool of all for physics: . Advanced physics can seem abstract, but it does connect to everyday life. Living things, too, must abide by the rules of . And physics may eventually set an . In the meantime, it makes us smarter. This article was originally published with the title "Better Than Sci-Fi" in SA Special Editions 24, 4s, 1 (December 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanphysics1215-1 Issue Editor 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.