Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Wednesday, November 9, dawned gray and raw in Berlin. I was there to moderate a couple of panels at an annual meeting called Falling Walls. The name and timing celebrate the anniversary of the Berlin Wall's fall, as well as the free exchange of ideas if only we can knock down barriers. I looked forward to a series of inspiring talks about how science, which I have often called the "engine of human prosperity," could help us solve some of our greatest challenges. We all crowded into a large room at the start of the day. A live broadcast began, looming above us on an enormous screen. The Falling Walls attendees watched the acceptance speech of the U.S. president-elect, Donald Trump, whose campaign included a promise to build a new wall. What would this mean for science, I wondered? As a candidate, Trump had made some troubling antiscience statements, including tweeting that global climate change is a Chinese plot, threatening that he would dismantle the agency that enforces clean air and water regulations, and endorsing the long-disproved link between vaccines and autism. Any hope that he would soften those stances after victory were quickly dashed. His first actions as president-elect included putting forward a climate change skeptic to head the Environmental Protection Agency and reportedly looking to make good on his earlier intent to pull out of the Paris climate accord. For 171 years, has chronicled the advances of science (and even fostered its application, with its patenting offices, starting in 1850). While at Falling Walls, I reflected on how many voters had come to feel disenfranchised in the face of that progress, leaving them with a sense of reduced opportunity. I thought about how we who work in and around science could be more inclusive in our outreach to them and to policy leaders and how we could help take a systems approach to better ensure that research will be applied in ways that result in greater public benefit. I thought about how we could still work together to build a better world. We just might have to try a little harder to get there. For these reasons, we are expanding the scope of our reporting on public policies that will affect science to round out our traditional coverage of the impact of that research on human lives. One thing is as clear today as it was when this magazine was founded in 1845, during the flowering of the industrial revolution in the U.S.: a world in search of solutions to humanity's challenges needs information about science, and will be tireless in providing it. This article was originally published with the title "What's Next for Science?" in Scientific American  316, 1, 3 (January 2017) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0117-3 Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.