Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Managing editor Sandra Upson introduces the January/February 2014 issue of "Friendship is certainly the finest balm for the pangs of disappointed love," Jane Austen writes in her 1817 novel . What if one's friend is the source of those pangs? Can he or she still a friend? Journalist Carlin Flora explores this question in our cover story, " ". Despite massive gains in gender equality, platonic friendship between heterosexual men and women still draws some suspicion. This intuition rests on two related assumptions. First, that physical attraction is inevitable in such a union. Second, that selfishness or subterfuge weakens the bond as a friend angles for more intimacy. As Flora reveals, neither of these conjectures holds up. And should unrequited feelings arise, she offers tips from science to help friends navigate mismatched expectations. We rely on friends for good conversation--but we also maintain a silent inner dialogue with ourselves. Studies suggest that such self-talk helps us craft the conscious narrative of our lives. Read about our inner dialogue in " ," by Ferris Jabr, an associate editor at . Talking through a task--this time aloud--appears to help children with autism overcome language difficulties, Jabr notes. A new trend in autism therapy targets such deficits at age one or two, when the brain is still highly malleable. See " ," by journalist Luciana Gravotta. Early intervention is also the goal in another public health concern, the brain deterioration that multiple hits to the head can trigger. In " " neuroscientists Jacqueline C. Tanaka and Gregg B. Wells investigate the rapidly evolving science of chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a disorder involving damaged neurons that threatens to reshape the game of football. If you take one thing away from this issue, let it be this: integrity at the cellular level, the dynamics of our inner universe and the richness of our social world contribute equally to mental well-being. May your brain thrive on all levels. This article was originally published with the title "Controversial Friends" in SA Mind 25, 1, 2 (January 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0114-2 January 1, 2014  --  Carlin Flora January 1, 2014  --  Jacqueline C. Tanaka and Gregg B. Wells January 1, 2014  --  Larry Greenemeier January 1, 2014  --  Brandon McManus January 1, 2014  --  Ferris Jabr January 1, 2014  --  Luciana Gravotta Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.