Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the October 2012 issue of In "The Other 1 Percent," Paula Stephan provides no evidence that income inequality positively affects scientific output, as she argues. As she mentions, the U.S. pours more than 0.3 percent of its (very large) GDP into science, and there are 100 other reasons--social, economic and historical--for high U.S. publication rates. The only evidential statement made, about Saudi Arabian output, goes against the article's main point (illustrating that high pay has not correlated with top research rankings), but even here it is difficult to discern the relative contributions of size, geographic location, and so on. Adrian Robert How Economics Shapes Science, . Although I can appreciate Arizona State University's efforts to redefine the boundaries of existing departments to develop synergies (such as by combining cosmology with geology), as described by Michael M. Crow in "Citizen Science U.," I can't help but remember my experience as an undergraduate computer science major at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Geology 105 taught me many basic premises about fossil fuels--gross availability, practical aspects to extraction, and application of the various products. I am skeptical that recasting the topic of geology into a larger department spanning from coal production to the formation of gas giants would lead to a similar depth of classroom content. Eric Mann . In Stephen S. Hall's interview with Ewan Birney ["Journey to the Genetic Interior"], Birney deprecates the term "junk DNA" for sequences whose function we do not know, but he is conservative on how much of nonprotein-coding DNA may be functional ("between 9 and 80 percent"). The fact that the entire genome is copied at every cell division suggests that close to 100 percent of DNA must be functional. Had any significant portion of DNA been nonfunctional in the past, evolutionary pressure to develop an editing-out mechanism to increase the cell's energy efficiency would have been tremendous. Birney also uses the conservative term "regulation" to describe how the 98.8 percent of nonprotein-coding DNA interacts with the 1.2 percent of protein-coding segments. It is more useful to describe the entire genome as software: instructions for cells to build copies of themselves and assemble cells into life-forms. In this view, the protein-coding segments are thought of as fixed-value strings within the code. If we could send a personal computer with Microsoft Excel and a copy of its source code back in time to Alan Turing, it seems unlikely that on comparing the screen output with the source code, Turing would conclude that fixed values such as "File," "Edit" and "View" were the essence of the software and that the other 99 percent merely "regulated" the operation of the fixed values. Malcolm Hamer In "Culture of Creativity," Fred Guterl interviews Paul Nurse, who concludes, "Scientists speak the same language." This may be figuratively true of the language of science, but verbally, they speak many different languages. It might thus be interesting to read an article on the language barriers to scientific communication and how they are overcome. Because American science predominates, is English the lingua franca of global science? Do our schools promote STEM students learning foreign languages? David W. Briggs . In "Why Germany Still Makes Things," Stefan Theil points to the use of new technology and manufacturers and researchers working closely as major reasons German manufacturing remains competitive. Both the U.S. and Germany still excel at making complex, high-tech items, but it seems that the former can no longer economically produce simple items, such as Keck clips (plastic clips used to hold pieces of glassware together), whereas the latter still can. Perhaps Germany has something to teach us in this sort of manufacturing as well. Howard J. Wilk "The Wisdom of Psychopaths," excerpted from a book by Kevin Dutton, refers to a lack of empathy as a psychopathic trait that can be beneficial. Yet the term "psychopath" refers to a person whose behaviors are habitually amoral and antisocial. The intensely focused individuals cited by Dutton are engaged in prosocial activities, which is moral, not psychopathic, behavior. Principles such a rationality, identity, group or creedal loyalties, fears of punishment/consequences and long-range self-interest direct their morality even though they lack empathy. Lack of empathy does not a psychopath make. Dutton's "wisdom" of psychopathy is a misnomer. Andrew D. Whitmont . . . "The Language of the Brain," by Terry Sejnowski and Tobi Delbruck, raises several philosophical questions. The phrase "the brain makes sense of our experiences" spurs the question of where the implied "I" comes in. Later, I read that "a neuron fires a spike after deciding...." So neurons do the deciding! And further on, we have: "the brain takes such synchrony to mean that the signals are worth noting." The question is: What is the difference between brain and mind, and how much control does my brain or mind (or I) have over my actions and thoughts? Andrew Milne This article was originally published with the title "Letters" in Scientific American  308, 2, 8-10 (February 2013) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0213-8 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.