Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Lack of sleep blunts emotional reactions, especially positive feelings When you're tired, it can seem as if everything is filtered through a negative lens. That might be because your positive lens is fuzzy when you are sleep-deprived, according to findings of two related studies published last year in the . Two groups of college students completed a series of tests to assess their emotional responses to negative and positive pictures, similar to those often shown on the nightly news. Twenty-eight students completed the test at various points throughout a night of simulated shift work after getting five hours of sleep, and 31 students did the same after staying awake for more than 24 hours. The students completed a short survey to indicate how each picture made them feel. The researchers found that all subjects' emotional response to the photographs became increasingly dampened as the night wore on, and their reaction to positive stimuli was even more subdued--that is, they grew less likely to feel good in response to uplifting pictures. "The human brain is naturally more attentive to negative events," perhaps as a survival mechanism that keeps us on the alert for life-threatening situations, says study co-author June J. Pilcher, a psychologist at Clemson University. Yet in modern society, life-threatening events are fairly rare, so instead we find ourselves overreacting to the pile of dirty dishes--especially when we, ourselves, are washed-out. This article was originally published with the title "Why Sleep Deprivation Makes You Crabby" in SA Mind 27, 2, 11 (March 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0316-11b Tori Rodriguez is a journalist and psychotherapist based in Atlanta. Her writing has also appeared in the and . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.