Read Our Latest Issue Both desiccation and radiation break 's chromosomes into short DNA fragments. Radman and his colleagues blasted the microbe with one megarad of gamma radiation, enough to sterilize food but well below 's resistance threshold. Nevertheless, its chromosomes broke down into short strands of DNA. For the next hour and a half, the cells appeared dead, but by the end of three hours the chromosomes of were reassembled and fully functioning. Close observation of this miracle revealed that DNA synthesis was at work, in which each fragment serves as a template and extends itself by removing damaged ends and overlapping with a fragment that matches part of its sequence of nucleotides--all with the help of an enzyme known as PolA. Ultimately this results in single long strands of repaired DNA, as much as 30 times longer than the longest repetitive sequences of 's DNA. But such single long strands of DNA do little to resurrect the microorganism until the second stage of the newly discovered process kicks in: the simple pairing discovered by Watson and Crick decades ago--adenine (A) bonds with thymine (T), and cytosine (C) bonds with guanine (G). By inserting a special version of the nucleotide thymine that only binds to single strands of DNA--known as 5-bromodeoxyuridine--the researchers could observe as the single strands bonded with complementary strands to form complete chromosomes. "Once the chromosome is functional, the synthesis of all cellular components starts, and the cellular life is back," Radman says. The process--dubbed extended synthesis-dependent strand annealing--solves the mystery of how survives radiation and repairs the damage it causes, according to the paper presenting the result published online in on September 28. It also shows that the plucky microbug actually synthesizes DNA faster during such recovery than during its own normal replication. But it does not solve the mystery of how common enzymes, such as PolA, work so much better in than in other microorganisms that radiation kills for good, notes Michael Daly of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences. Regardless, scientists are now closer to understanding the remarkable strength of this "strange berry" and perhaps putting it to work. "Because can survive death, I like to dream that it can teach us how to resurrect dead neurons," Radman says. "Plus, I would send [it] to seed life on sterile planets--directed panspermia." A big role may await this tiny extremophile. David Biello is a contributing editor at . July 27, 2006  --  David Biello July 1, 2000  --  Julie Wakefield November 1, 2005  --  David Warmflash and Benjamin Weiss Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.