Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Recommendations from by Adam Steltzner, with William Patrick Portfolio, 2016 ($28) before NASA's Curiosity rover was to land on Mars, an engineer on the team planning its touchdown found a problem: the three coordinates that determined the vehicle's "center of navigation" in its onboard computer were off. The team members faced a daunting decision: live with the minor error, which might have no effect on the landing, or update the coordinates and risk setting off other problems by making such a significant change so late in the game. They decided to alter the numbers--apparently a good call, because the rover famously made a flawless descent using its unprecedented "sky crane" landing system, which lowered the rover on cables from a spacecraft hanging above. Steltzner, leader of Curiosity's entry, descent and landing team, with writer Patrick, recounts the challenges and thrills of planning the most complex planetary landing mechanism ever designed--a system he helped convince nasa's chief was "the right kind of crazy." This article was originally published with the title "Book Review: The Right Kind of Crazy" in Scientific American  314, 4, 78 (April 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0416-78a Clara Moskowitz is a senior editor at . She covers space and physics. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.