Read Our Latest Issue In this third article of a four-part series commemorating the World Wide Web's 20th birthday, editor Mark Fischetti describes an effort to bring free Internet access to African communities Scientific American Scientific American   Only 20 percent of the world's people use the Web, even though 80 percent live in places where some kind of Internet signal or connection exists. , who invented the Web 20 years ago this month, says inspiring initiatives by individuals and institutions could change that ratio.  For example, Berners-Lee was part of a recent meeting called by , former British Prime Minster and , a Boston-based software entrepreneur. English made a case that very-low-bandwidth Internet--enough for "text only" Web pages--could be provided free across Africa. A second tier of paid access to higher speed service, provided by African entrepreneurs, would support the free service. Most citizens would access the Web wirelessly, using mobile phones or laptops. Everyone at the meeting pledged to support the idea, and .  Could such a scheme succeed financially? , the Polish Internet service provider, thinks so. When the company offered free low-bandwidth connections in three counties, it quickly recouped the investment from the many people who upgraded to its pay service. Berners-Lee notes, "If through commercial astuteness, or government regulation, very-low-bandwidth Internet service can be made free, and if device suppliers put enough Web capability into the next wave of cheap phones, we could see an accelerated wave of new access to the Web. Education, health and a local entrepreneurial economy could all rise in its wake."  Developing countries everywhere could initiate similar plans, Berners-Lee adds. Other initiatives to broaden Web access are being led by the international , which has a mission to see that the Web serves humanity as well as possible.  For more from Berners-Lee on electronic human rights, see Mark Fischetti is a senior editor at . He covers all aspects of sustainability. Credit: Nick Higgins March 12, 2014 October 1, 2008  --  Steve Mirsky March 12, 2009  --  Michael L. Dertouzos March 12, 2009  --  Mark Fischetti April 17, 2009  --  Larry Greenemeier Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.