Read Our Latest Issue "Contrary to a common misconception, the shape of the mushroom cloud
does not depend on the nuclear or thermonuclear component; as you note,
a massive detonation of chemical explosives would produce the same
effect. "A mushroom cloud forms when an explosion creates a very hot bubble
of gas. In the case of a nuclear detonation, the bomb emits a blast of
x-rays, which ionize and heat the surrounding air; that hot bubble of
gas is known as a fireball. The hot air is buoyant, so it quickly rises
and expands. The rising cloud creates a powerful updraft which picks up
dust, forming the stem of the mushroom cloud. "The central part of fireball is hottest, creating a rolling motion
as it interacts with the outer portions. Thermal instabilities, called
Kelvin- Helmholtz instabilities, occur at the interface between the
fireball and the neighboring cool air. If you watch a movie of a nuclear
detonation, you can see entrained material swirling outwards as a
result. "All atomic bombs produce a bulge and a stem, but the really huge,
flat clouds--the ones that could be described only as mushrooms-- come
from the very high-yield explosions caused by thermonuclear weapons
(hydrogen bombs). The fireball from an H-bomb rises so high that it hits
the tropopause, the boundary between the troposphere and the
stratosphere. There is a strong temperature gradient at the tropopause,
which prevents the two layers of the atmosphere from mixing much. The
hot bubble of the fireball initially expands and rises. By the time the
bubble has risen from sea level to the tropopause, it is no longer hot
enough to break through the boundary. (In other words, the bubble
encounters material that has more energy than it does, so it is no
longer buoyant.) At that point, the fireball flattens out; it can no
longer expand upward, so it expands to the side into an exaggerated
mushroom cap. The same thing happens to big summer
thundercloud when they rise up to the tropopause, producing a
characteristic flattened-anvil shape. "Those interested in learning more about mushroom clouds and other
atomic-bomb phenomena might want to look at the book The Effect of
Nuclear Weapons, compiled and edited by Samuel Glasstone and Philip J.
Dolan (U.S. Department of Defense and U.S. Department of Energy, 1977). 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.