Read Our Latest Issue To date, the biological effects of climate change have shown up primarily in ecological patterns, such as the northerly spread of butterflies or the earlier flowering of plants and mating of animals. Corroborating those findings with genetic studies is more challenging because the needed data do not extend very far back for many organisms. One exception is the fruit fly, particularly a native of Europe that was introduced to the Americas in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Researchers sampled the fly's chromosomes at around the same time they appeared in North and South America, after having sampled them in Europe. They noted that inversions common to high (northern) latitudes occurred less frequently at low latitudes, and vice versa. Now Huey and his co-workers have resampled the flies in the same locations. The low-latitude inversions have crept upward, appearing in the more northerly flies in 21 of 22 sites that have experienced warming, but not in four nonwarmed sites, they find. Flies in the warmed sites have the pattern of inversions that would previously have been found in their brethren one degree, or 70 miles, closer to the equator. Average temperatures in these sites have risen by half a degree Celsius since the earlier inversion samples were taken. The researchers speculate that the genetic change confers some protection against the heat, although migration may also play a role, says Huey. The result suggests that flies, with their short generation time, can cope genetically with climate change, he notes, whereas longer-lived organisms, such as large trees, are unlikely to be as flexible. "If you have some organisms able to keep up and others not, I think a lot of plant-animal interactions could be disrupted," Huey forecasts. JR Minkel was a news reporter for . May 11, 2006  --  David Biello August 1, 2000  --  Paul R. Epstein October 26, 2001  --  Sarah Graham Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.