Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Reviews and recommendations from by Oliver Sacks Knopf, 2015 ($27.95) In his new book, neurologist and bestselling author Sacks takes readers on a journey across decades and continents. His scientific proclivities are in evidence throughout--in his childhood chemistry experiments, his studies of the brain and even his dabbling in psychoactive drugs. But it is the stories of human triumphs and losses, whether intimate romantic encounters or the deaths of great friends, that will likely remain with his readers longest. by Steve J. Martin, Noah J. Goldstein and Robert B. Cialdini Grand Central Publishing, 2015 ($28.00) Knopf, 2015 ($27.95) How can we persuade people to donate to charity, recycle or obey the law? Martin, Goldstein and Cialdini give answers that are subtler than one might think. In their entertaining new book, the authors break down the persuasion literature into 52 mini chapters, offering surprisingly simple techniques to help us influence our peers. by Daniel Tammet Little, Brown, 2013 ($26.00) In this collection of 25 essays, Tammet, an autistic savant, polyglot and author of two previous books, explores the beauty and complexity of numbers. He elaborates on his passion by delving into the importance of number in how we perceive the world while sprinkling intriguing anecdotes from his own life. This article was originally published with the title "On Our Shelf" in SA Mind 26, 5, 69 (September 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0915-69b Daisy Yuhas is a science writer and features editor for SAPIENS. Credit: Nick Higgins Victoria Stern is a contributing editor at . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.