Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Each year we poll scientists and educators on ideas for books, puzzles and toys that foster inquiry. This season's picks range from a top that never stops spinning to a build-it-yourself skull.  A five-layer birch puzzle lets kids peer inside the human body, revealing the digestive tract, nerves and skeleton. Katy Shepard, a Ph.D. candidate in neuroscience at Emory University, says her three-year-old cousin received this puzzle after he pointed to his skin and asked, "What comes next?"  Paperboard boxes that stack nearly three feet high and feature beautiful illustrations of the life cycles of the butterfly and frog are accompanied by an informative poem, says Julie Frey, a fifth grade teacher at Stuard Elementary School in Aledo, Tex.  This 39-piece 3-D puzzle comes with a removable brain. "This puzzle is educational, challenging and, most important, fun," says Kent Kirshenbaum, a chemistry professor at New York University. "Bonus: the jaw swings open and shut hauntingly after you complete it."  Michelle Nijhuis, a biologist and author, recommended this book and the two following ones. (For more of her suggestions, go to lastwordonnothing.com.) Bones, she writes, has fantastic illustrations and "is also great for inspiring hands-on research."  This book chronicles the author's four-month-long Pacific research voyage. "Webb describes her work in some depth, but she emphasizes not the results but the experience: the starlit nights on deck, the sightings of dolphins and whales and seabirds, and daily life with her fellow scientists," Nijhuis writes.  "Late one Tuesday evening a mob of frogs flies through town on lily pads, disappearing as quickly as it came. Why? This almost wordless story doesn't say, leaving kids free to form their own theories about spontaneous frog flight," Nijhuis says.  Eugenie Scott, executive director of the National Center for Science Education, touts this book as "an excellent introduction to a topic not frequently covered in children's books. There's more to evolution than dinosaurs, after all!"  Never underestimate simple building blocks. Noah Cowan, an associate professor at Johns Hopkins University's Whiting School of Engineering, says they are "an essential component in developing a child's ability to reason about space, time and even challenging concepts like entropy. Bristle blocks are particularly good for young children who don't yet have the dexterity for Legos--and, frankly, bristle blocks are even more open-ended because the connector density is higher."  This real baby shark taken from an adult caught by a commercial fisher "offers a launching point for discussions about the differences between sharks and bony fish, the diverse ways sharks bear their young, and the importance of conservation for threatened shark species," N.Y.U.'s Kirshenbaum says.   Christof Koch, a professor of cognitive and behavioral biology at the California Institute of Technology, grew up playing with these designer sets, many made by a 189-year-old German company. "These days kids see computer simulations and watch YouTube but don't do that much with their own hands anymore," he says. More than 60 different kits are available for various ages and specialties--from chemistry and biology to energy and forensics.  This battery-powered top has a motor with an eccentric weight inside that keeps it spinning until the battery runs out. Matt Moses, who just earned his Ph.D. in mechanical engineering at Johns Hopkins, asks these questions when showing it to students:  These fuzzy replicas of human cells, viruses and bacteria include the common cold (rhinovirus), neurons, and red and white blood cells. "The large size and kid-friendly plush help students visualize microscopic structures," says Emory's Shepard. Anna Kuchment is a contributing editor at and a staff science writer at the . Previously a reporter, writer and editor with magazine, she is also author of , which is about bacteriophage viruses and their potential as weapons against antibiotic resistance. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.