Read Our Latest Issue A physics science activity from Science Buddies Physics Motion Position Velocity Acceleration Measurement Have you ever played a video game with a controller that used motion controls? Do you ever wonder how sometimes a smartphone seems to "know" if you're moving? How do these electronic devices measure motion? Try this activity to find out! You're probably familiar with the units we use to measure distance and velocity. In the U.S., we might say someone is 5 feet 11 inches tall (measuring distance) or that we drive 55 miles per hour on the highway (measuring velocity, which is a unit of distance during an amount of time). Scientists use the metric system, which measures distance in meters (m) and velocity in meters per second (m/s). To reach a certain velocity, an object will often need to speed up or slow down. You might use the word "accelerate" to describe something that is speeding up (such as a car accelerating after a red light) or "decelerate" to describe something that is slowing down (such as a car applying the brakes). We can explore these ideas even further. Whereas velocity measures how fast distance changes, acceleration measures how fast velocity changes. That makes the units for acceleration sound a little weird: meters per second per second--or "meters per second squared" (m/s ). If something has a constant velocity, such as a car using cruise control on the highway, its acceleration is zero. If the velocity changes at all, the acceleration is not zero. For example, if a car is stopped at a stoplight, it has a velocity of 0 m/s. If it accelerates, and two seconds later it has a velocity of 10 m/s, its acceleration was 5 m/s . Roller coaster riders can experience accelerations up to approximately 60 m/s , and fighter jet pilots might experience accelerations up to 90 m/s for brief periods of time! Don't worry if this all sounds confusing--you can just think of acceleration as how fast something is speeding up or slowing down (if it's slowing down, the number will be negative). What does all this have to do with smartphones and video game controllers? Acceleration can be measured with a small electronic device called an accelerometer. Most smartphones these days contain built-in accelerometers and can run apps that display the accelerometer readings. So if you want to explore motion in the world around you, all you need is a smartphone!   You should easily measure accelerations up to approximately 10 m/s as you go through regular motions while holding a phone. Smartphones, fitness trackers and pedometers can track changes in these accelerations to count how many steps a person takes throughout the day. The accelerations might be a little higher if you put the phone in your pocket instead of holding it because it bounces around more. Faster motions, such as swinging the phone, could result in accelerations of more than 50 m/s --close to the same accelerations felt by someone riding a roller coaster. Some electronic devices, such as laptops, actually have a "drop detector" and will automatically power down to help prevent damage if they detect accelerations that are too high. (Again, don't test this one!) You might be confused if you discovered that you could get the acceleration reading to change just by tilting your phone. After all, the phone isn't moving around--its velocity is zero, so shouldn't the acceleration also be zero? This occurs because accelerometers also detect acceleration due to gravity, which is 9.8 m/s . As you tilt your phone the direction of gravity relative to the phone's body changes. Even if the phone is holding still, this will make the X, Y, and Z acceleration readings different depending on which one is pointing downward. This is how motion controls in video games (for example, tilting the controller to steer in a racing game) work.  , from Science Buddies  from  , from  , from Science Buddies Ben Finio is a senior staff scientist at Science Buddies and a lecturer at the Cornell University Sibley School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Follow him on Twitter @BenFinio. 5 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 6 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 7 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.