Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Book recommendations from the editors of by Sandra Rendgen. Princeton Architectural Press, 2018 ($60). Charles-Joseph Minard became famous in the 19th century for the "flow map," which represents the movement and quantity of something over space or time. His most recognized map was among his last: the charting of Napoleon's disastrous 1812 campaign into Russia, in which hundreds of thousands of troops were lost. A forefather of modern information visualization, as writer and editor Rendgen calls him, Minard created more than 60 statistical graphics that capture the economic and social changes of the industrial revolution in Europe and around the globe. He meticulously interpreted the data for each topic and created a narrative intended to shine through each map. This stunning collection includes them all--from visual depictions of the transport of mineral fuels in France in 1856 to a series on the European import of cotton over eight years. The flow map above shows the number of railroad passengers in Europe in 1862. by Virginia Sole-Smith. Henry Holt, 2018 ($28). Sole-Smith's daughter was an infant, she had to be tube-fed because of a heart surgery. After her recovery, she refused to drink milk and, later, to eat solid food. It took two years for the author and her husband to painstakingly teach their child to feel safe and interested in eating. Although their example is extreme, Sole-Smith investigates the varied ways many people's relationships with food are fraught. In this engrossing tale, she interviews doctors, nutritionists, chefs and many individuals who are all striving to figure out what it means to "eat well." Sole-Smith reveals the lack of science behind many diets and detox plans claiming to improve health and wonders, "Why is it so hard to feel good about food?" -- by Jesse Bering. University of Chicago Press, 2018 ($27.50) psychologist and writer Bering had accomplished most of his career ambitions. He was respected in academia, having scored large research grants and published in prestigious journals. He also was a successful freelance writer. Outwardly he seemed to be thriving, but internally he suffered from suicidal thoughts. Why do people in their prime have the impulse to kill themselves? Bering takes us through the science behind ending one's life. Bering says research shows, for instance, that susceptibility to suicide is about 43 percent dependent on genetics and 57 percent on environmental factors. He weaves together personal stories, delves into whether nonhuman animals die by suicide, and examines the relation of religion and self-killing. These angles offer a critical perspective on a devastating problem. -- by Venki Ramakrishnan. Basic Books, 2018 ($18.99). know what DNA is and how it works. Most, however, would struggle to describe the ribosome, the molecular machine that synthesizes proteins according to the genetic code. "Virtually every molecule in every cell in every form of life is either made by the ribosome or made by enzymes that are themselves made by the ribosome," writes Ramakrishnan, co-winner of the 2009 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for illuminating the ribosome's structure. As he relates in this absorbing account, his team raced others for decades to decipher the structure; its nonuniform crystal pattern does not lend itself to x-ray crystallography and defied years of coaxing. With each try, Ramakrishnan got a slightly clearer picture of this ancient machinery--paving the way for discoveries in antibiotics and other fields. -- This article was originally published with the title "Recommended" in Scientific American  319, 5, 80 (November 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1118-80 Andrea Gawrylewski is the collections editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.