Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Some species adapt well to no-till fields As grassland has morphed into farmland across the American Midwest, wildlife diversity and abundance have declined. But for some birds things might not be so grim. Some grassland species appear to have adapted particularly well to no-till soybean fields, according to research published in March in the journal . Tilling is a process in which farmers remove weeds and loosen soil before seeding the ground, but no-till farming eschews that practice. Detritus from the previous season's harvest is left covering the ground, where it provides a nice foundation for nesting birds. That birds were more likely to nest in no-till fields than in tilled ones was not terribly surprising. Rather it was "the extent that birds used no-till [fields], the species of birds we found nesting, and their nest success relative to what we consider quality habitat," says Kelly R. VanBeek, who conducted the study for a master's thesis at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. James Herkert, director of the Office of Resource Conservation at the Illinois Department of Natural Resources, was also surprised by the species diversity in no-till fields, including several "that are of conservation interest such as eastern meadowlark, dickcissel [and] upland sandpiper." American robin nests were the most common found in both field types, which was also unexpected because robins tend to prefer nesting in trees and shrubs. It "shows just how adaptable they are," he says. Nest loss was high in both types of fields, though. The birds whose nests were destroyed by machinery would have been spared if planting were delayed until June 1. But in the past 10 years farmers have planted, on average, 66 percent of soybeans by May 30, in part because soybeans have better yields if planted earlier. The conflicting needs of farmers and wildlife "make finding win-win solutions challenging," Herkert says. Still, the researchers suggest that rather than buying small tracts of land to set aside as wildlife reserves, conservationists should work with farmers to implement more ecologically sustainable strategies, such as no-till farming. This article was originally published with the title "Where Farmers and Birds Agree" in Scientific American  310, 4, 26 (April 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0414-26 Jason G. Goldman is a science journalist based in Los Angeles. He has written about animal behavior, wildlife biology, conservation, and ecology for , magazine, the , the , the BBC, magazine, and elsewhere. He contributes to 's "60-Second Science" podcast, and is co-editor of (Yale University Press). He enjoys sharing his wildlife knowledge on television and on the radio, and often speaks to the public about wildlife and science communication. April 1, 2014  --  THE EDITORS Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.