Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue An incipient field of radio astronomy is about to go mainstream New subfields in astronomy tend to follow a particular sequence: Something new is observed. Researchers scratch their heads, then look for more examples of it. At first, each discovery in the new category--say, an exoplanet or gravitational-wave event--generates excitement. Eventually they begin to feel routine. But that is when the science gets interesting: with enough examples, patterns emerge, and inaccurate hypotheses are weeded out. In 2020 the study of fast radio bursts (FRBs) has crested to that point. For nearly two decades radio telescopes have been detecting these distinctive pinpoints of radio light. They come from distant galaxies and last just a fraction of a second, typically never to reappear. With hundreds of FRBs now recorded, researchers have enough data points to begin drawing conclusions about the universe. One big player in the search is the Canadian Hydrogen Intensity Mapping Experiment (CHIME), a telescope that has detected more than 700 FRBs since the start of 2019. CHIME researcher Cherry Ng says that with all the new results coming in and with coordination among astronomers growing, "we can all work together to figure out what these are." Here's the story of this field so far. This article was originally published with the title "Fast Radio Bursts Grow Up" in Scientific American  323, 6, 20 (December 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1220-20 Katie Peek, formerly the information graphics editor at , is a science journalist and data-visualization designer. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.