Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Science in meter and verse billion years ago --while here on Earth multicelled life was arising and spreading-- in a galaxy far far away two spinning black holes danced 'round one another, rippling the fabric of space and time. The ripples, called sucked energy from the holes' orbit, so The holes spiraled inward, eclipsing each other, toward a climactic collision: The holes, at half of light speed, collided catastrophically and merged in a brief, cataclysmic storm of writhing and twisting spacetime that brought the waves to crescendo. The climaxing gravity waves surged into interstellar space. Spreading across our universe, they stretched and they squeezed all that they met (stars and planets and nebulae...) in patterns that encoded a portrait of their birth:  . he gravity waves were hugely strong, with fifty times more total power --more luminosity--  . Fifty universe luminosities from two black holes colliding. But not any light. Not any x-rays. Not any gamma rays or radio. No electromagnetic waves at all, None of any type. carried wholly and solely by gravity waves, by tendices and vortices, entwined, by structures made from warped spacetime. ifty thousand years ago, when humans shared Earth with Neandertals, the waves plunged into our galaxy: The Milky Way. Our home. On September fourteen of twenty fifteen they dove into Earth in Antarctica. Whispering up through Earth's bowels unscathed, and emerging near New Orleans, the waves encountered --a complex and huge, L-shaped device designed and built to perceive them. In LIGO the gravity waves stretched and squeezed two long beams of light, which extracted the portraits the waves encoded:  . A momentous Eureka Event, it was humans' first moment of contact with the . This article was originally published with the title "The Warped Side of Our Universe" in Scientific American  323, 4, 26 (October 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1020-26 Astrophysicist Kip Thorne began collaborating with artist Lia Halloran five years before winning the Nobel Prize for his part in discovering gravitational waves from colliding black holes, a finding memorialized in their upcoming book of paintings and verse, excerpted here. Credit: Nick Higgins Lia Halloran is an artist who often draws from concepts and the history of astronomy. She developed her love of science beginning with her first job dissecting cow eyes and doing laser demonstrations at the age of 15 at the Exploratorium in San Francisco. She is a painter and photographer living in Los Angeles and represented by Luis De Jesus Los Angeles, and she is an associate professor of art at Chapman University. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.