Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Used cigarette filters in nests may protect hatchlings As horrifying as the idea of baby birds growing up in a cigarette-filled home sounds, a new study suggests that some birds may benefit from weaving the fluffy plastic from cigarette butts into their nests. The nicotine lingering in smoked filters may serve as a natural insecticide, driving parasites and other harmful insects away from the nests and the baby birds living within. (Tobacco plants generate nicotine because it defends against insects and their larvae that would otherwise devour the plants.) The butts are undoubtedly smelly. But birds are actually quite fond of smelly chemicals, such as those found in aromatic plants. Some nest-building species regularly replenish their nests with fresh aromatics, possibly because the chemicals boost the immune system or the development of the chicks. Alternatively, the plant chemicals might act as insecticides. In the study, researchers at the Autonomous University of Tlaxcala in Mexico set up heat traps, which attract parasites, in 55 nests around Mexico City. Some traps were lined with filter fluff from smoked cigarette filters. The others were lined with fluff from unsmoked filters, which did not contain nicotine and other smoking by-products. Whether the nest held eggs, chicks or nothing, the unsmoked cigarette traps collected more parasites, suggesting the chemicals drove parasites away and not another property of the filters. In a second experiment, the researchers collected 28 house sparrow nests and 29 house finch nests from Mexico City immediately after the chicks flew out for good. They found that the more smoked filter fluff padded a nest, the fewer parasites it had. The missing piece of the puzzle is whether the reduced parasite load in the nests actually provided any benefit to the chicks. It is also unclear if nicotine or another chemical found in cigarettes, such as hydrogen cyanide, arsenic or ammonia, may have turned the parasites out of the nests. If the results hold, then this study is an example of wildlife adaptation to urbanization--or at least evidence that birds are resourceful and can still follow their noses in urban environments.  This article was originally published with the title "Bird Butts" in Scientific American  308, 2, 24 (February 2013) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0213-24b Hannah Waters is a science writer fascinated by the natural world, the history of its study, and the way people think about nature. On top of science blogging, she runs the Smithsonian's , a marine biology education website, and is science editor for . Hannah is a child of the internet, who coded HTML frames on her Backstreet Boys fanpage when she was in middle school. Aptly, she rose to professional science writing through blogging (originally on ) and . . Before turning to full-time writing, Hannah wanted to be an oceanographer or a classicist, studying Biology and Latin at Carleton College in Northfield, Minnesota. She's done ecological research on marine food webs, shorebird conservation, tropical ecology and grassland ecosystems. She worked as a lab technician at the University of Pennsylvania studying molecular biology and the epigenetics of aging. And, for a summer, she manned a microphone and a drink shaker on a tour boat off the coast of Maine, pointing out wildlife and spouting facts over a loudspeaker while serving drinks. Email her compliments, complaints and tips at culturingscience at gmail dot com. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.