Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the February 2017 issue of In "The Exercise Paradox," Herman Pontzer asserts that greater physical activity does not allow people to control weight. He goes on to describe studies on how the human body burns calories that help to explain why this is so. But in one of these studies, "couch potatoes" expended an average of around 200 fewer calories a day, compared with moderately active subjects. A difference of 200 fewer calories a day equates to more than 20 fewer pounds a year. Year after year after year, that really adds up.  Cyclists participating in the Tour de France are said to ingest more than 5,000 calories a day. According to Pontzer's article, this would seem to be way too much. So why do they do it? And why don't they become obese?  . . In "Imagine No Universe" [Skeptic], Michael Shermer explores attempts to answer the question of why there is "something rather than nothing" in the universe and the difficulty in defining "nothing." Why do we, just one of the species in existence, assume our brains are capable of knowing why we exist and what there is beyond infinity? This should not inhibit us in striving to understand the purpose of life, and so on. But we should accept that it may take a millennium of human development to know everything. Perhaps then we will become gods!  . , Heavens on Earth, . "Novel Math," by Mark Fischetti [Graphic Science], discusses studies of works of fiction that found, respectively, limited variations of emotional arcs and fractal patterns in the lengths of sentences. I am a high school English teacher who has taught the works of Kurt Vonnegut for about the past 20 years. I am certainly not a brilliant math person, but I am fascinated by the mathematical connections with art and the universe. The second I began reading the article, I started laughing and flashed on my man, Kurt. In the late 1940s he (probably facetiously) proposed a master's thesis at the University of Chicago on the graphing of stories. His proposal was rejected, but the graphs of stories show up in his work , which is hilarious (though maybe only to English majors). He also discussed the subject in a short lecture segment that can be seen at . Daegu High School Daegu, South Korea In "Deep-Space Deal Breaker," Charles L. Limoli discusses how new studies show that cosmic radiation might damage astronauts' brains more than we had previously thought. Although I agree that cosmic radiation is a difficult and challenging issue for deep-space travel, it is by no means a "deal breaker." It is "merely" an engineering problem, albeit a hard one. In the late 1800s some assumed that powered flight for humans would not be possible. Yet given the numerous examples from the natural world, others instead saw human flight as an engineering challenge that could be overcome. Limoli touches on a couple of strategies in early stages of development for protecting humans in space, but he notes that none of these efforts "has the potential to be a cure-all. The best we can hope is to reduce, rather than eliminate, damage." I can imagine many methods to better shield astronauts: we could invent nanobots that will quickly repair the damage or magnetic fields that will surround spacecraft to deflect the radiation in a manner similar to how Earth's magnetic field protects us on the surface. We don't know which of these or other potential solutions will eventually prove practical, but there is no doubt that with effort and a dose of logical imagination, engineers can indeed solve the issue.  . This article was originally published with the title "Letters" in Scientific American  316, 6, 5-6 (June 2017) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0617-5 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.