Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The engineer and recent MacArthur "genius" grant winner thinks we have much to learn from the humble jellyfish John Dabiri  Associate professor of aeronautics and bioengineering, California Institute of Technology 2010 MacArthur fellow  Pasadena, Calif. Quite a few different things. On a given day we could be working on wind energy or working with the navy on underwater vehicles. We have, in our laboratory, live jellyfish in the upstairs labs and, downstairs, robotic vehicles that we design. We study biological systems and try to steal ideas from nature to apply to technology. Our designs don't look like robotic jellyfish per se. We take the existing platforms that the navy uses--the propeller-driven vehicles--and try to modify them to create the flows that we see in jellyfish. That's probably a good analogy--one of these things that modify an existing system to enhance its performance. Certainly we could imagine building things that were more like jellyfish or squid in their nature. But what we're really waiting for is for the materials scientists to come up with something that provides the flexibility that you would want and at the same time has the strength and the resilience that you would expect from a vehicle that's going to be in the water for many years at a time. The challenge with existing horizontal-axis wind turbines is that they need a lot of space; you have to separate the turbines so that their wakes don't interact. So we started to explore vertical-axis wind turbines, which rotate on a vertical pole and can take wind from any direction. As I was starting to model the equations for the wind field around a turbine, it was sort of one of these eureka moments--I realized that they were very similar to the equations that we saw previously studying fish schooling. Fish arrange themselves to the amount of energy that's required for the group to go from point A to point B. Our aim would be to try to the amount of energy that is extracted from these vertical-axis turbines. Not just in our models. Over this past summer we have done small field tests, and the predictions of the model have been borne out. [Laughs] I think what we're really aiming to do is to change people's minds about wind energy. People call it the most mature of the renewable energy technologies, where the future is: Can we build them larger? Can we put them offshore? But there are some fundamental advances that can be made if we reconsider whether the three-bladed turbine is the optimal solution. Technology is ever evolving. While there's a lot of opposition to the current platform for wind energy, there are better options to come. There's no need to settle just yet. Michael Moyer is the editor in charge of physics and space coverage at Scientific American. Previously he spent eight years at Popular Science magazine, where he was the articles editor. He was awarded the 2005 American Institute of Physics Science Writing Award for his article "Journey to the 10th Dimension," and has appeared on CBS, ABC, CNN, Fox and the Discovery Channel. He studied physics at the University of California at Berkeley and at Columbia University. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.