Read Our Latest Issue Tom Zepf of the physics department at Creighton University in Omaha,
Neb., notes that "Sunlight heats a material such as water or a brick
primarily because the long wavelength, or infrared, portion of the sun's
radiation resonates well with molecules in the material, thereby setting
them into motion. So the energy transfer that causes the temperature of
the substance to rise takes place at the molecular rather than the
electronic level." Scott M. Auerbach, a theoretical chemist at the University of
Massachusetts at Amherst offers a more detailed answer: "Light from the sun excites electrons in the atoms which constitute
the brick wall. How does that electronic energy get converted to heat,
you ask. The key is 'radiationless transitions.' Here's how it works:
the atoms of the brick are perpetually vibrating. Some of those atoms
vibrate sufficiently vigorously that their vibrational energy is roughly
equal to the electronic energy (photons) absorbed from the sun--in
essence, they are in resonance with the solar energy. Those atoms then
make a quantum transition from 'electronically excited' to
'vibrationally excited,' meaning that the energy causes the whole atom
to move. We feel that motion as "heat." The atoms which make the jump to
vibrational excitation soon collide into neighboring atoms, dissipating
their vibrational energy throughout the entire brick, making the brick
hot throughout. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.