Read Our Latest Issue Do Phelps's body shape and flexibility give the eight-gold-medal winner a physical edge in swimming? Now that Michael Phelps has won an unmatched eight gold medals in this year's Olympic Games, lots of journalists are asking what gives Phelps such a leg up on the competition ( , of course, though have tainted other Beijing Olympians). Beyond Phelps' , as reported by the and his undoubtedly good training, could it be that a good bit of his (as well as many ') talent just boils down to simple anatomy? There's his ," as described by the newspaper. Phelps's arms extend 80 inches (203 centimeters) tip to tip, and his body measures in at 76 inches (193 centimeters) in height. Most of the time, a person's height normally corresponds closely to the distance between his outstretched hands. (Recall  that famous sketch of a naked male showing his arm-leg-torso ratios.) Maybe this extra reach gave Phelps that narrowest of victories against Serbia's Milo Cavic in the 100-meter butterfly final on Saturday, August 16, when the American won by just one one-hundredth of a second. Phelps is also said to be , according to a blog. His size-14 feet reportedly bend 15 degrees farther at the ankle than most other swimmers, turning his feet into virtual flippers. This flexibility also extends to his knees and elbows, possibly allowing him to get more out of each stroke. Do any of these alleged anatomical advantages matter? To find out, spoke to H. Kosuke Kitajima]   January 19, 2007 August 15, 2008  --  Ivan Oransky April 1, 2008  --  Michael Shermer April 1, 2005  --  Steve J. Ayan Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.