Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue As ground-based gravitational-wave detectors get ready to score their first direct measurement of the ripples of spacetime, thoughts turn to space-based detectors that could see all the way back to the big bang In this month's article " ," Ross Andersen writes about an audacious plan to use exquisitely precise measuring tools called atom interferometers to map out what the universe looked like when it was just a trillionth of a second old. Atom interferometers work by cooling down a cloud of atoms to just a few degrees above absolute zero. These atoms are so cold that all the atoms enter the same atomic state, becoming essentially indistinguishable. The cloud can then be treated as a single object. If you want to use the atom interferometer to detect faint gravitational waves from just after the big bang, you would have to put the interferometers in spacecraft (two or more) flying in precise formation around the sun. Laser beams would excite each cloud of atoms, putting it into a superposition of two parts, with two different velocities. After 10 seconds another laser reverses the process, so that the two parts start coming back together. As the atom clouds overlap again, more lasers measure them. If during the 20 seconds it takes for the process to run its course a gravitational wave rolls through the space between the spacecraft, it will shift the distance between the two individual cloud pairs by a tiny amount, imparting a measurable change in the final state of the atoms. This NASA video describes the project in a bit more detail, and interviews Babak Saif, a physicist at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center who is leading the effort.   Michael Moyer is the editor in charge of physics and space coverage at Scientific American. Previously he spent eight years at Popular Science magazine, where he was the articles editor. He was awarded the 2005 American Institute of Physics Science Writing Award for his article "Journey to the 10th Dimension," and has appeared on CBS, ABC, CNN, Fox and the Discovery Channel. He studied physics at the University of California at Berkeley and at Columbia University. September 17, 2013  --  Ross D. Andersen Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.