Read Our Latest Issue The latest analyses from the Large Hadron Collider boost the case for the particle's existence, but there's no new data Today the two main experiments at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC), the world's most powerful particle accelerator, submitted the results of their latest analyses. The  boost the case for December's announcement of a , but let's not get too excited. First, there's no new data in there--the LHC stopped colliding protons back in November, and these latest results are just rehashes that earlier run. In the case of the Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS), physicists have been able to look at another possible kind of Higgs decay, and that allows them to boost their Higgs signal from 2.5s to 3.1s. Taken together with data from the other detector, ATLAS, Higgs overall signal now unofficially stands at about 4.3s. In other words, if statistics are to be believed, then this signal has about a 99.996 percent chance of being right. It all sounds very convincing, but keep your hat on, because the fact is that statistical coincidences happen every day. Over at Cosmic Variance, Sean Carroll points out that . Does that mean that they've discovered a super-partner to the bowl? No. (If you don't get that joke, don't worry, it was written only as punishment for those who would). After the LHC starts this spring, we'll be much closer to knowing what's actually going on. Right now, scientists are to decide at what power to run the collider this coming year. The latest rumours are that the machine will push from 7 to 8 TeV, and it will also increase its luminosity (the number of collisions per pass). For a little context more about what's going on, check out this video of my trip back in November:   This article is reproduced with permission from the magazine . The article was on February 7, 2012. September 22, 2011  --  Lisa Randall September 26, 2011  --  John Matson December 8, 2011  --  Davide Castelvecchi July 19, 2011  --  Alexander Vilenkin and Max Tegmark Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.