Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue In 1935 Albert Einstein and his collaborators wrote two papers about what seemed to be vastly different things. One, which he famously later described uncomfortably as "spooky action at a distance," is quantum entanglement: a surprising connection between objects, such as atoms or subatomic particles, which may be quite far apart. The other is wormholes, shortcuts between distant regions of space and time predicted by relativity. Work by theorists, including Juan Maldacena, author of this issue's cover story, " ," suggests a surprising link between the two phenomena. As he writes, "quantum mechanics' entanglement and general relativity's wormholes may actually be equivalent"--with profound implications, including the tantalizing possibility of someday developing a unified theory of quantum mechanics and spacetime. Not every area of science is in the realm of the theoretical, where we might debate the veracity of a particular field of inquiry and its possible ultimate outcomes. In many areas of perhaps more mundane human endeavor, we what the truth looks like, thanks to uncounted numbers of experimentalists who have provided evidence-based documentation in thousands of studies conducted over decades or longer. Still, some will deny the data. In an election year, with so many candidates rejecting even basic truths, it seems especially appropriate to fulfill a promise that made to readers in its first issue, in 1845: "In conducting this publication we shall endeavor to avoid all expressions of sentiment, on any sectional, sectarian, or political party subject; but we shall exercise a full share of independence, in the occasional exposure of ignorance and knavery." With this in mind, we offer " ." In a series of essays, our expert authors describe areas where research is definitive: that the process of evolution explains life as we know it today, that human-caused climate change is real, that vaccines do not cause autism, that homeopathy is bunk and that aliens have not, in fact, visited our blue planet. The package calls out numerous other fallacies, some entertaining and some distressing. As Einstein himself wrote in his article, " ," in April 1950, "experience alone can decide on truth." Here's hoping that more people can come to embrace that experience along with an evidence-based view of the world. This article was originally published with the title "Theory and Truth" in Scientific American  315, 5, 4 (November 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1116-4 Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.