Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Women have too long been an afterthought: denied equal opportunity at home and in society and ignored by science. Recent decades brought progress toward some measure of parity in the realms of economics, politics, education and health care, but yawning gaps remain, and some are growing, threatening to undermine everyone's well-being. As the World Economic Forum put it in its 2018 report on gender disparities, "More than ever, societies cannot afford to lose out on the skills, ideas and perspectives of half of humanity to realize the promise of a more prosperous and human-centric future that well-governed innovation and technology can bring." New research is resolving age-old and often misguided debates about the dissimilarities between the genders. Rather than inherent biological characteristics, environmental factors are coming to be seen as the driving force behind both behavioral and between men and women, though in some cases amid controversy. Gender variances certainly impact the health of women: and and are . Nowhere are women being more underserved by the biological sciences, perhaps, than in the field of reproductive medicine. Most scientists agree that a . After more than 60 years of mass-scale reliance on birth control (which has led to crucial social outcomes for women), investigators are just now considering its physical consequences and . In society and the workplace, women have long suffered the (and violence toward girls) and prejudice against their abilities. Thankfully, many attitudes are evolving, and for the better-- . Adjusting workplace policies can have a , such as training personnel to change perspectives that and . Culture shifts take time, but the payoff is measurable in dollars to the economy and improvements in building the modern world. The World Economic Forum report made note of a concerning emergence of a gender gap in AI-related skill sets, and surely all sectors of innovation cannot afford to waste the talents of women. Dollars and science aside, there is a more basic reason to care: justice and equality for all. This article was originally published with the title "An Issue for Everyone" in SA Special Editions 29, 1, 1 (February 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanwomen0120-1 Andrea Gawrylewski is the collections editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.