Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue TV viewers are less tolerant of opposing views during extreme close-ups  dubbed the "shouting heads"--television pundits who treat political discussion more as blood sport than reasoned argument. But new research suggests the problem is not just the shouting; our annoyance also comes from the apparent size of those heads. Shouting combined with extreme close-ups tends to make viewers less tolerant of opposing political viewpoints, according to Diana Mutz, a political scientist at the University of Pennsylvania. "It takes people we would dislike regardless, and then it puts them in our faces in a way that truly intensifies our negative sentiments," she says. When we see a magnified face on television, we react as if a real person were pushing into our comfort zone. When that face is also shouting political statements we disagree with, our dislike of the person seems to color our perception of his or her political opinions as well, Mutz observes. Mutz filmed professional actors engaged in a mock political debate from a medium distance and in extreme close-up. She shot polite versions of the debate, as well as versions with interruptions, shouts and name-calling. Volunteers who saw close-up shots of rude people they disagreed with were more likely to judge the opinions being expressed as illegitimate. They judged the same rudely expressed opinions as being more valid, however, when the talking heads had been filmed at a medium distance. Mutz sees disagreement as a healthy part of democracy but worries when people feel that the opposition does not have a legitimate point of view. If these people were to see their side lose, she points out, they might begin to question the legitimacy of the government itself. This article was originally published with the title "In Your Face" in SA Mind 19, 2, 11 (April 2008) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0408-11 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.