Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Welcome to the October issue of Have you been sleeping well this year? If not, you're not alone. Nightmares about COVID-19--fears of being in crowded spaces, touching germy surfaces, feeling exposed without a mask--have been disturbing the sleep of people around the world. The pandemic seems to have introduced a new shared unreality, with dreams that are as alarming as that one about being late for a final exam you haven't studied for. is from psychiatrist and dream researcher Tore Nielsen, who is busy studying the largest inadvertent sleep-disruption experiment in history. COVID-19 is the worst pandemic in a century, in part because the coronavirus behaves in unexpected ways. At first, we thought the disease spread primarily through sneezes and coughs and from people touching surfaces where respiratory droplets had landed. Now , often from and don't realize they're infected. is one of the ways the new pandemic resembles the HIV/AIDS pandemic, and longtime researcher William A. Haseltine . One of his more touching observations is that there is a social element to both diseases. People go to bars and parties when they are seeking companionship, which is natural and human. When a bizarre object zipped through our solar system in late 2017, astronomers quickly realized it was from out of this world. 'Oumuamua is the first object from another solar system to be detected in ours. We call it an object because nobody really knows what it is--it's kind of comet-ey, kind of asteroid-ey, and according to a few theorists, it's not entirely unlike an alien ship. (In general, whenever somebody says, "Maybe it's aliens," it's never aliens.) A second extrasolar interloper soon followed, and . The COVID-19 pandemic is exacerbating the health effects of racism, with disproportionate illness and deaths among people of color. Janet Currie, an expert on social and environmental impacts on health, explains how infants can be unequal at birth. One hopeful side of her article is that access to health care and nutritional support, as well as other interventions and policies, , leading to dramatic improvements in lifelong health and economic security. The story on unlearning racism shows one person's struggle, using science and scholarship, to understand and confront the bias we're pickled in. A lot of people are newly recognizing systemic inequalities in the U.S. and other parts of the world, and . People who live in the forests around Lake Mensabak in the southern Mexican state of Chiapas are descendants of the Lacandon Maya, a group that left the large cities of the Maya empire when drought, war, slavery and disease devastated the civilization. Now to study their history and understand how their ancestors adapted to a new life. Freelance writer Zach Zorich . When people move, dance, sing or swing together, they often experience a distinct form of joy and fellowship. , which some researchers claim has a social-bonding function that helped early humans form cohesive groups (and make beautiful music together). Thank you for reading . All of us here wish you good health and pleasant (or as pleasant as possible) dreams. This article was originally published with the title "Synchronicity" in Scientific American  323, 4, 6 (October 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1020-6 Laura Helmuth is editor in chief of . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.