Read Our Latest Issue Biotechnology specialists Charles Arntzen and his colleagues at Arizona State University used a process developed in Germany to effect the change. First, they injected the tobacco plants with TMV, genetically modified to produce one of three previously proven plague antigens: proteins known as F1, V and a fusion of the two. The three varieties of modified viruses quickly infiltrated the plants and replicated, but instead of producing infection, each viral cell started producing its assigned type of antigen. Within 10 days, the researchers had a full crop of tobacco leaves filled with vaccine. "Every time it replicates, it makes the proteins that we are interested in getting produced," Arntzen says. Arntzen and colleagues then ground up the leaves--garnering roughly two milligrams of antigen for every gram of leaf--and purified the resulting vaccine with acids. Fellow researchers at the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Disease in Maryland then vaccinated groups of eight female guinea pigs with the different varieties of antigens before exposing them to --the bacteria responsible for airborne plague, the most potentially deadly form. Within six days, whereas all guinea pigs that had not been vaccinated were dead, nearly 60 percent of the vaccinated guinea pigs survived, and even those that died survived for longer than six days. The V antigen proved most effective, saving 75 percent of the inoculated guinea pigs. Human testing remains to be done. But if the vaccine passes that test, it could provide an effective deterrent to emerging strains that have shown resistance to the antibiotics that have kept the deadly disease at bay in recent history. The findings are being published online this week by the David Biello is a contributing editor at . May 9, 2005  --  Luis Miguel Ariza October 19, 2000  --  Julia Karow February 15, 2005  --  Sarah Graham Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.