Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Book recommendations from the editors of by Michael J. Ryan. Princeton University Press, 2018 ($29.95) If a female tungara frog doesn't fancy the call of a singing male, she moves on to another suitor or may give him a body slam. A male bowerbird builds large huts from sticks and decorates them, sometimes even using berry juice as wall paint. Humans buy showy cars, bathe in perfume and pour money into elaborate beauty routines. Mating is the end goal of most of these bizarre efforts to attract, but what defines which colors in plumage, which notes of birdsong or which facial features prove alluring? Zoologist Ryan charms readers with his account of attraction in the animal kingdom, including humans. As he puts it, beauty is in the "brain of the beholder." -- by Alanna Mitchell. Dutton, 2018 ($28) In a patch of the Atlantic Ocean between Africa and South America, the earth's magnetic field runs opposite to its normal direction. And this patch might be a harbinger of things to come. Our planet's magnetic field has flipped directions hundreds of times in its history, the north and south magnetic poles swapping locations, and some scientists think we are overdue for another switch, explains science journalist Mitchell. She details the evidence building up and canvases the fascinating history of the study of the earth's magnetic field. If another pole swap is coming, the process could prove catastrophic for life, disrupting animals' magnetic navigation and letting in harmful space particles that could fry organic cells and electronic circuits alike. -- by William E. Glassley. Bellevue Literary Press, 2018 ($17.99) The jagged and intricate coastline of Greenland, with its thousands of fjords, islands and skerries, measures longer than the circumference of the planet. But the geologic origin of the landscape remains controversial. Over the course of several field trips to this wilderness, geologist Glassley and two colleagues went in search of evidence that the land is in fact the remnant of an ancient mountain chain and the site of tremendous geologic upheaval. In this nonlinear telling of those travels, Glassley ponders the nature of perception and the human mind, describes the dramatic physical features of Greenland's makeup and recounts the thrilling adventures of his extended visits there: "Wandering alone in that infinite, ancient wilderness ... that, to me, was heaven." by Sang-Hee Lee. W. W. Norton, 2018 ($26.95) Although we may marvel at our unique human attributes, the biological details of hominin evolution can seem convoluted and dry. Paleoanthropologist Lee quickly discovered this when she first began teaching undergraduate classes at the University of California, Riverside--she was often met with a general lack of interest. Years later Lee was contacted out of the blue by a journalist from her home country of South Korea and asked to write a series of columns about human evolution for a broad readership. Her articles became popular, and Lee started teaching her students in the same way she was telling stories to the Korean audience. This book is a collection of those stories--short tidbits that answer intriguing questions of evolution, from why we eat meat to where back pain comes from. This article was originally published with the title "Recommended" in Scientific American  318, 2, 66 (February 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0218-66 Andrea Gawrylewski is the collections editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.