Read Our Latest Issue  Reptiles aren't as cuddly as their herpetological cousins, the amphibians. Kermit, after all, is no But reptiles are in as much if not more danger of disappearing from the planet, an article in the August 11 issue of the journal reports. Indeed, although a great deal of public attention has focused on dwindling populations and in amphibians in recent years, this new paper warns that reptiles probably warrant even more concern. The problem, lead author Whit Gibbons of the University of Georgia says, is multifaceted, but perhaps the most serious threat of extinction comes from habitat loss and degradation. For instance, often only part of a habitat falls under local conservation laws: whereas wetlands may be protected, the surrounding terrestrial regions, which semiaquatic reptiles rely on just as much, are frequently left open for destruction. Additional factors include the introduction of invasive species, evironmental pollution, climate change, disease and humans. According to Gibbons and his colleagues, people are in fact endangering reptiles on many fronts. Cars run over the animals; human food wastes lure predators into fragile ecosystems; and commercial uses of reptiles are often not sustainable practices. The animals are frequently harvested for pets, food and use in folk medicines in such great numbers that the populations from which they come cannot recover. This is a particularly serious issue for those species that take many years to reach maturity. It is difficult for herpetologists to evaluate just how dire the situation is at the moment because many reptile populations haven't been monitored rigorously--or at all--for long periods of time. Further complicating matters, reptiles often cover large amounts of territory and are by nature fairly clandestine creatures, so even drastic declines can be hard to notice. But it is definitely happening. "Current evidence suggests that these declines constitute a worldwide crises," Gibbons declares, and the best stance for conservation efforts is to "assume the worst" while scientists gather more data. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.