Read Our Latest Issue "One of the necessary conditions for a battery to be rechargeable is that the
underlying chemical changes that occur during an electrical discharge from the
cell must be efficiently reversed when an opposite electrical potential is
applied across the cell. In nickel-cadmium (NiCad) batteries, for example, the
Cd(OH) and Ni(OH) that are formed during cell discharge
are readily converted back to the original electrode materials (Cd and NiOOH),
when the cell is recharged. "In contrast, nonrechargeable, or primary, batteries can be based on irreversible
chemical changes. For example, the carbon-fluoride- lithium primary batteries
often used in cameras generate energy by converting (CF) n and Li metal to carbon
and LiF. But the starting material at the battery' s cathode, (CF)n, is reformed when a reverse potential is applied. Instead the cell
electrolyte decomposes, and eventually the fluoride is oxidized to form fluorine
gas. "A reversible chemical change is not the only requirement for rechargeable
batteries, however. To be classified as rechargeable, the battery must be able to
undergo the reverse reaction efficiently, so that hundreds or even thousands of
recharging cycles are possible. In addition, there must often be provisions to
ensure that the recharging process can occur safely. "The alkaline batteries (which are generally based on the conversion of
MnO and Zn to Mn and ZnO) offer an excellent
example of this last point. Although the chemical changes at the electrodes can
be reversed, until recently alkaline batteries were manufactured only to function
as primary cells. Recharging one of these primary cells could allow the battery
to be reused, but the possible number of recharging cycles for such a cell is
very limited--it performs more poorly with each recharge. More important,
recharging an old-fashioned alkaline battery is not safe. During or after a
recharge, the battery might generate enough hydrogen gas to cause an explosion.
In their rechargeable form, alkaline cells have undergone several changes. They
have been redesigned to allow for a more efficient reverse reaction, they contain
a catalyst to minimize hydrogen formation and they have safety vents that prevent
the buildup of excess pressure during recharging." Frank McLarnon is a staff
scientist and principal investigator in the Energy & Environment Division of
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. He clarifies why some reactions are
irreversible: "All batteries, both rechargeable and nonrechargeable, undergo electrochemical
reactions. When a battery is discharged, an electrochemical oxidation reaction
proceeds at the negative electrode, and an electrochemical reduction reaction
occurs at the positive electrode. When one attempts to recharge a battery by
reversing the direction of electric current flow, the opposite takes place: a
reduction reaction proceeds at the negative electrode, and an oxidation reaction
takes place at the positive electrode. "In the case of the rechargeable battery, the electrochemical oxidation-
reduction reactions are reversible at both electrodes. For example, when the
battery is recharged, the overall electrochemical reduction reaction at the
negative electrode is identical to the electrochemical oxidation reaction that
proceeded at the negative electrode when the battery was discharged, only written
in reverse. "In the case of the nonrechargeable battery, when one attempts to recharge the
battery by reversing the direction of electron current flow, at least one of the
electrochemical oxidation-reduction reactions is not reversible. When the battery
is charged, the overall reduction reaction that proceeds at the negative
electrode may not be the true reverse of the oxidation reaction that proceeded
when the battery was discharged. For example, metal oxidation might be the sole
oxidation reaction during battery discharge, whereas the formation of hydrogen (a
highly inflammable and therefore dangerous gas) might be a significant reduction
reaction during battery recharging. "An added requirement for a well-behaved (that is, long-lived) rechargeable
battery is that not only must the electrochemical oxidation- reduction reactions
be reversible, they must also return the electrode materials to their original
physical state. For example, rough or filamentary structures may form in the
battery after repeated charge- discharge cycles. These structures can result in
unwanted growth of the electrode and subsequent electronic contact between the
battery electrodes- -a short circuit. "Because of these requirements, the development of a well-behaved rechargeable
battery is significantly more difficult than the development of a nonrechargeable
battery. In the case of the nickel-cadmium battery, the cadmium electrode has two
important features. First, the rate of hydrogen formation on cadmium is very slow
(compared with that on pure zinc or pure iron, for example). Second, the
solubility of cadmium in basic aqueous electrolyte solutions is sufficiently low
that the cadmium does not tend to dissolve in the electrolyte and migrate to the
positive electrode or elsewhere within the battery. At the same time, however,
the cadmium is sufficiently soluble that its reduction can proceed easily, and it
can form compact cadmium structures during battery recharge; the solubilities of
most other metals are either too high or too low. These and other fundamental
factors have allowed the successful development of the rechargeable
nickel-cadmium battery 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.