Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Two scientists and a computer weigh in on a long-standing mystery about giraffes If you dropped a giraffe into a deep pool of water, would it float, or would it sink? If it could float, would it swim briskly and confidently to the nearest bit of land, or would it flail around helplessly and drown? Strange as it may seem, the floating and swimming abilities of giraffes--or rather their supposed lack of floating and swimming abilities--have often been written about by experts. It has been asserted that giraffes "sink like stones" and "cannot swim, even in an emergency," and that "rivers are an impassable barrier to them." Although a few rare photographs and segments of film show that giraffes will wade into deep rivers when they have to, definite observations of them swimming have yet to be reported. One way to examine the behavior of giraffes in water would be to push one into a deep pool and observe the results. Ethical and practical concerns make this hypothetical experiment impossible, so I thought of another solution. Inspired by sheer curiosity, I approached Donald Henderson of the Royal Tyrrell Museum of Palaeontology in Drumheller, Alberta, who had created a three-dimensional computational model of a giraffe for another project and had also tested the buoyancy of assorted living and extinct animals by using flotation-simulating software. Could Henderson, I wondered, test the buoyancy of his "digital giraffe" in the same way? If he could, we might be able settle this question once and for all. To compare the model's aquatic behavior with that of other animals, we performed calculations to determine an immersed giraffe's centers of mass and buoyancy, the resistance it encountered when moving its limbs, and the friction it encountered across its whole surface. We had to take account of the giraffe's unusually shaped lungs, the size of which has been the subject of disagreement among experts. Having tweaked the model to make it as plausible as possible, we were ready to see whether the giraffe could float and swim. Our analysis and conclusion appear below: Giraffes can float, but they would be clumsy and unstable in the water. Testing the swimming abilities of a giraffe might seem like a frivolous exercise. But analyzing the question is of great interest to anyone engaged in the biology or management of the animals. Our study also showed that scientists could rely on computer simulations to help examine fascinating questions in biomechanics. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.