Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Science in meter and verse High-born, not like those other elements, The common riffraff, the ones All too ready to mix it up. From the right tower of the periodic table They appraise their inferiors, Arrayed in colored boxes as far as they can see. Dancing lightly on the parapet, Helium waves her party balloons Of yellow, red, and blue. A level down, in her flaming orange-red dress, Neon shows a leg and shouts into the darkness Her cry of freedom. Argon chats with his neighbor below, Krypton explaining again she's not a planet That exploded, nor a danger to anyone, caped or not. Flashy and rakish (but naturally so), Xenon Flaunts his electric suit of lavender, Nearly blinding all who look in his direction. Radon draws something from his invisible pocket, Bows, and casts seeds on the unaware, Bids them gently into that good night. And on the ground floor, Oganesson blinks out, Half her life gone in less than a millisecond, Happy to be in a poem--or in anything at all really. This article was originally published with the title "The Noble Gases" in Scientific American  323, 5, 24 (November 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1120-24 Douglas O. Linder is a professor of law at the University of Missouri-Kansas City and creator of the Famous Trials Web site. He tries to write a poem every day, often having to do with the periodic table. He began his collection of elements years ago and by now has a little bit of everything. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.