Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the April 2018 issue of "The Brain, Reimagined," by Douglas Fox, concerns work by physicists Thomas Heimburg and Andrew D. Jackson, who argue that signals in neurons are conveyed by mechanical waves of expansion and contraction of the cell membrane rather than by electrical spikes, or action potentials, as described by British researchers Alan Hodgkin and Andrew Huxley. Heimburg's contention is described as being that the Hodgkin-Huxley model is simply wrong. It is astonishing that he would not accept a compromise between the two models. Given, for example, the Hodgkin-Huxley equations' long-standing success in describing action potentials, this argument would require addressing how the new mechanism accounts for the observations of the old. The list of questions could be quite long, and there are several I would ask at a minimum. Among them are how Heimburg's model accounts, quantitatively, for the increased velocity of conduction in myelinated axons and the mechanism by which it leads to transmission across a chemical synapse. DOUGLAS A. EAGLES Fox hints at the possibility that a voltage pulse in a neuron will initiate a mechanical deformation and that a mechanical pulse will generate a voltage. This sounds similar to the way that changes in electric and magnetic fields generate each other to produce a propagating electromagnetic wave. Is it possible that the interaction of electrical and mechanical effects is actually required for neurons to function? PETER SOCHACKI . Lydia Denworth reports on novel ideas and technology used for "Preventing Suicide." As a psychiatrist and researcher, I would like to emphasize that although formal training in how to detect and manage suicide can be very helpful, it is unlikely to reach all of those who potentially work with troubled individuals. A more straightforward option is to become comfortable discussing topics related to suicidal ideation and behavior. If you are exposed to someone with any risk of suicide, being open to hearing what the person has to say and listening are typically enough to prevent an attempt and create an opportunity for progress, such as a referral to a mental health specialist. Denworth says that 95 percent of young people in a survey indicated that they wanted to be asked about suicide risk. People prefer to live and, if given the chance, without sensing reluctance from the listener, will discuss suicidal thoughts. BRAD BOWINS Denworth writes that "the pain and hopelessness that lead a person to want to die can be anticipated, addressed and ameliorated." Yet one of the techniques she describes is to match "suicide-related images--blood, wounds and knives--with aversive pictures of snakes, spiders, and the like." Programming the emotional mind to feel fear or disgust at the means of killing oneself makes no more difference to a patient's suffering than preventing suicide by strapping someone to a bed. Am I the only one who finds it disturbing that a doctor thinks it is acceptable to inflict this kind of emotional conditioning? R. ALLEN GILLIAM . "Flashes in the Night," by Duncan Lorimer and Maura McLaughlin, discusses the observation and search for fast radio bursts from the distant universe. The article brought back a memory from my days as an undergraduate assistant working on the 300-foot radio telescope in Green Bank, W. Va., in 1968. Green Bank is in a radio-quiet area, but the local farmers used equipment that the telescope could detect. It was easy to distinguish these signals because they didn't shift four minutes every day, as do the radio sources we were interested in. But one puzzling signal showed up most days at the same sidereal time. We identified it as coming from the noisy starter in a co-worker's car as he showed up for his observing run, four minutes later each day. Perhaps we would have called the signal a peryton had we known more about mythology. Instead, in keeping with the designations in the Third Cambridge Catalogue of Radio Sources, we named the source after the driver's initials: 3C-MMD. ALAN KARP . Having retired from designing software systems, I was not a bit surprised by David Pogue's assessment of the sorry state of dashboard controls in "Automotive Touch Screens Are Awful" [TechnoFiles]. I was often struck by the utter arrogance of engineers in my profession when it came to creating user interfaces (UIs). It seemed that the main objective in designing a UI was to produce the cleverest newfangled gadget, without regards to legacy or familiarity on the part of the target users, who were never consulted. Completely forgotten was the idea that a UI should be easily mastered by the most technologically inept operator. I suppose we should be thankful that the steering wheel hasn't yet been replaced by arrows on a touch screen. TED CARMELY I am fascinated by Aditee Mitra's "The Perfect Beast," which describes "mixotrophic" plankton, which can use solar energy like plants but can also hunt and eat prey. The idea that one plankton specializes in preying on a different one makes me wonder if there are any indications of types that attack environmentally damaging species, such as the "toxic " or "ecologically damaging, green " cited in the article, and if it would thus be possible to encourage growth of the more desirable species in areas prone to blooms of the undesirable ones. EDWARD J. JAGO "The Perfect Beast," by Aditee Mitra, includes a photograph of a microorganism incorrectly described as ( ) . Although the source of the image had identified it as that species, an expert review clarified that it shows a member of the genus . This article was originally published with the title "Letters" in Scientific American  319, 2, 6-7 (August 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0818-6 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.