Read Our Latest Issue Congress (probably) won't defund the government next week. But if they do, their decision will be disastrous for science. No one wants another government shutdown. Not President Obama, who to fight ISIS and Ebola abroad. Not Speaker Boehner, who warned House Republicans last month that defunding the government . And certainly not the who were furloughed without pay during the last 16-day shutdown, in October 2013.  Fortunately, . With a bit of political finesse, experts believe that Boehner can rally the GOP to fund the government before the December 11 deadline--despite Republican outrage over the president's recent unilateral steps toward immigration reform.  But, lest we forget, it is worth revisiting what happened to science and scientific research the last time the government shut down--and what could happen again, if Congress can't reach an agreement by the end of next week. Congress funds of all research in the United States, and the 2013 shutdown locked scores of scientists out of their federally funded laboratories. "Losing two weeks of data collection during a critical research period or two weeks of a key experiment that took months or years to set up will have repercussions for years," Andrew A. Rosenberg, director of the Center for Science and Democracy at the Union of Concerned Scientists last year.  The shutdown hit lab animals particularly hard. Thousands of transgenic mice, bred for science at significant expense, were euthanized to avoid overcrowding. Other high-maintenance breeds simply died from neglect.  "I'm sure it's chaos at the NIH for anyone doing mouse experiments," Roger Reeves, a researcher at Johns Hopkins University, .    During the 2013 shutdown, NASA was forced to suspend tests for instruments that would go on the James Webb Space Telescope. Tom Greene, an astrophysicist at NASA's Ames Research Center, that delaying the project could cost as much as one million dollars per day. Greene added that, since NASA could not afford to delay the mission, researchers might forgo running several important tests.  Even more terrifying than a broken space telescope, however, was that NASA actually for 16 days. Until the shutdown ended, private companies and the European Space Agency had to monitor the skies for rogue space rocks without NASA's help.    As soon as the shutdown began, the National Institutes of Health suspended all new clinical trials. Each week, the NIH turned away as many as 200 volunteer subjects, many of whom were cancer patients desperately hoping that an experimental treatment might save their lives.  "I am furious," Michelle Langbehn, a cancer patient who was unable to enroll in a drug trial due to the government shutdown, . "They are denying or delaying potentially life-saving treatments to Americans in need of a miracle. I speak for everyone battling cancer when I say we don't have time."  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention also suffered during the shutdown. The CDC is responsible for keeping track of emerging infections and coordinating seasonal flu vaccines. But when two thirds of their staff were furloughed during the last shutdown, health surveillance--and public health initiatives--were put on hold.    In October 2013, federally funded scientists were until the shutdown ended. For more than two weeks many American scientists couldn't share their findings with the international scientific community or participate in joint research projects abroad. Government shutdown not only stifled U.S. research--it set back our foreign collaborators, too.  For science, perhaps that is the biggest problem with a government shutdown. So much of scientific research relies on trust. Scientists abroad trust that their U.S.-backed partners will be able to see a project through to the end. Conference coordinators trust that decorated American scientists will be able to present their findings at major meetings.  And federally funded researchers trust that the government won't pull the plug on their work and send them back to square one.  Joshua A. Krisch is a science writer based in New York City. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.