Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world Rising ocean temperatures are melting Greenland's ice caps at three times what the rate was before 1997, according to a recent data analysis of meltwater runoff and ice-cap mass. The island's melting ice caps account for a third of global sea-level rise. Ozone pollution is damaging rice at an important stage of its growth, a new study has shown. China loses more than 1 percent of its rice crop yield for every day that high concentrations of surface ozone occur. This past March a Japanese man became the first human to receive an injection of "reprogrammed" stem cells donated by another person. Mature skin cells were converted to an embryonic state before being transformed into retinal cells to treat the man's eye disease. University of California, Berkeley, researchers mapped out a plan for developing renewable power and reducing fossil-fuel dependency in Africa. The project would establish wind and solar farms in 21 countries in the continent's densely populated eastern and southern regions. Scientists found traces of and other human-carried pathogens in the breath of orcas in the Pacific Ocean off the coast of North America. Storm-water runoff and sewage may be a source, and researchers worry the parasites could be killing the whales. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  316, 6, 18 (June 2017) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0617-18 Andrea Marks is a former editorial intern. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.