Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The co-executive producer of CBS's hit comedy and author of the forthcoming book talks about how his show helps to humanize scientists  Eric Kaplan  Co-executive producer, The Big Bang Theory  Los Angeles  It bears a family resemblance to science education. What we try to do is to make people feel that scientists are real people and that science is something that real people, like themselves, could do.  We try not to make too strong a dualism between the two because our characters are people who care passionately about science. For example, we had a fight between Sheldon [a main character], who is a physicist, and his girlfriend, Amy, who is a neuroscientist. And the content of the fight got pretty philosophical because he said, "My research is intrinsically more important than yours because reality is physical, and the physical will ultimately explain biology and therefore explain the human brain." And she said, "My research is more fundamental than yours because when you're doing physics, something is going on in your brain, which my biology will be able to understand." And then they broke up. All you really need to know is that she was saying she's smarter than he is, and he was saying that he's smarter than she is--the emotional reality of what was going on.  We read science journalism, and we familiarize ourselves as much as we can with things that our characters would be concerned with. For example, I was listening to an NPR story about the neuroscience behind habit formation and habit extirpation. That would be an interesting thing to deal with. And we have a consultant who is an actual physics professor at U.C.L.A.--David Saltzberg--so we run stuff by him.  I think I asked the same question when I showed up. I was like, "Hey, is that lithium?" And the answer I was given was, "Yes, it is lithium." But it's not [there] because lithium is an antidepressant or anything like that. This article was originally published with the title "Exploiting Physics for Serious Laughs" in Scientific American  308, 5, 22 (May 2013) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0513-22a Erik Vance is a science writer and relatively new father. His first book, (National Geographic, 2016), is about how belief affects the brain. Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.