Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Hip-hop artists understand what our ears forgive In his critically acclaimed song "Empire State of Mind," rapper Jay Z used conventional rhymes such as , as well as partial rhymes such as . Long considered part of the verbal artistry of hip-hop, this latter type of word play also reflects a sophisticated awareness of what consonants sound like in different parts of words. In a recent study examining the songs of seven individual rappers, researchers found that partial rhymes such as , in which the last consonant differs, occurred very frequently. Previous laboratory work had already shown that different consonants at the end of a word often sound similar to people, and the new study suggests that rappers capitalize on this fact to create pairs of words that seem to rhyme, even when they do not. The study also showed that partial rhymes such as , where the middle consonant differs in versus , occurred in the songs only infrequently. Consonants in the middle of a word rarely sound similar to people, and rappers appear to recognize this tendency, using such pairs sparingly. The implication is that--not surprisingly--rappers possess a subtle but deep understanding of how people perceive speech. This article was originally published with the title "How to Rhyme Like a Rapper" in SA Mind 26, 6, 9 (November 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind1115-9b 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.