Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Has my series on DEFCON 2015 terrified you with tales of how hackers can infiltrate your life in any number of ways--from your social media accounts to the government to your car? If you're feeling helpless against hackers, here are some of the best ways to safeguard yourself and your technology Hackers can make you feel powerless. Here are several ways to protect yourself (and your technology) from those who seek to infiltrate it: Let's start off with the basics: do not use the same password for all of your accounts, and make sure that your passwords are complex. In the past, I've talked about using services and programs such as and keypass in order to manage passwords. What I really like about these programs is that they are free and allow you to only have to remember one password in order to login everywhere. They also have a really nice feature that will generate new and random passwords for you for all of your different websites. The reason for this is that if a hacker gets one of your passwords, you don't want to give them the opportunity to be able to log in to all of your online accounts. Random and different passwords makes this much more difficult. I also recommend setting up some form of two factor authentication. I've done a on two factor authentication, but it basically secures logins with two different types of security, something you know like a password, and something you have like a phone or a key. Typically for my bank accounts and other secure accounts I like to have this extra measure of security. What's nice is that having two factor authentication set up makes life much harder for hackers because they not only need your password, but they also need the device for the second part of the authentication. Eric Escobar is a professional computer hacker and host of the podcast on Quick and Dirty Tips. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.