Read Our Latest Issue An artsy science project from Science Buddies Physics Balance Forces Gravity Lever Have you ever seen a mobile? Not a mobile phone--but a hanging art sculpture? You might have had such a mobile in your room when you were little. These mobiles hang in the air and are usually made up of layers of hanging balanced rods, which, in turn, have objects hanging from them. When you look at a mobile sculpture you might wonder how it stays balanced--even when it is in motion. In this activity you will make your own mobile sculpture and find out. Mobiles are free-hanging sculptures that can move in the air. These sculptures are not only artistic, but they are also a great demonstration of balanced forces. If you look at a traditional mobile more closely you will usually notice that it is made of various horizontal rods. On each of these rods there are hanging objects attached with a string. When building a mobile it is important to keep each rod's objects balanced so that the rod stays horizontal and is not pulled down in any one direction. Each rod essentially acts like a seesaw. If you put more weight on one end of it, gravity will pull the rod down in that direction. To balance the rod you need a counteracting force of the same magnitude on the other side. It is not only the weight of the objects that matters but also the location on the rod where they are attached. You might notice that not all of the objects are attached to the rods symmetrically, meaning that they are not equally spaced from the pivot point (or the center) of the rod. Even with two objects of the same mass the rod can be tilted in one direction if one of the objects is farther from or closer to the rod's pivot point than the other one. A balanced mobile will be at rest as long as no additional forces are acting on its structure. When air moves, however, it can push on the objects hanging from the mobile. As a result they start to move. This motion creates a ripple effect throughout the mobile structure because all of its pieces are connected. You probably now realize that making a mobile not only requires artistic skills but also some knowledge of physics and balanced forces. You will put all of these skills to the test in this activity by making your own mobile. Do you think you will be able to balance all the forces within its structure?    Were you able to balance all the forces within your mobile? It might have been trickier than you thought. Even balancing a straw on a string can be challenging. You might have observed that if you didn't attach the string to the very center of the straw, it was pulled down on one side more than on the other. To ensure that the straw hangs perfectly horizontally, the force pulling down on each of its sides must be exactly the same (this will be true if the string is in the center of the straw). When you attached one shape to the straw the weight of the shape should have pulled the straw down on the side it was attached. Attaching another shape to the other side of the straw most likely did not fully balance out the straw either. This was because the shape and size of the two attached pieces were probably not exactly the same. The shape that was heavier pulled down on the straw more than the lighter shape. You were probably able to balance the straw out by moving the heavier shape closer to the pivot point (or center) of the straw. Putting the full mobile together probably took some patience. The mobile probably needed a lot of testing and trying to figure out how to balance the load on each of the straws. You might have noticed that the length of the string didn't affect the balance of the straws very much, as the string itself is not very heavy. When you hung up the mobile and blew on one of the shapes it should have been obvious that the mobile moves with even the slightest breeze. The air movement pushed on the shape and, even though it was a small amount of force, the whole mobile started moving because all of its parts are connected. Clean up the remaining construction paper, string and all your tools. You can hang the mobile up in your room or give it as a gift.  , from Science Buddies  , from HyperPhysics at Georgia State University  , from HyperPhysics at Georgia State University  , from Saatchi Art  , from  , from Science Buddies 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.