Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Brainpower beats popping pills with improving their performance, but some of them may want to thank their brain instead. Mounting evidence suggests that the boost from human growth hormone (HGH), an increasingly popular doping drug, might be caused by the placebo effect. In a new double-blind trial funded by the World Anti-Doping Agency, in which neither researchers nor participants knew who was receiving HGH and who was taking a placebo, the researchers asked participants to guess whether or not they were on the real drug. Then they examined the results of the group who guessed that they were getting HGH when, in fact, they had received a placebo. That group improved at four fitness tests measuring strength, endurance, power and sprint capacity. The study participants who guessed correctly that they were taking a placebo did not improve, according to preliminary results presented at the Society for Endocrinology meeting in June. "This finding really shows the power of the mind," said Ken Ho, an endocrinologist at the Garvan Institute in Sydney, Australia, who led the study. "Many athletes are reaping the benefits of the placebo effect, without knowing whether what they're taking is beneficial or not." And in fact, HGH may not be helpful at all, reveals a recent review published in the . Endocrinologist Hau Liu of Stanford University and his colleagues looked at 44 studies and found that although HGH did increase athletes' lean body mass, it did not lead to improvements in athletic performance in double-blind trials. The implications for athletes are serious, according to Ho. Many athletes take a cocktail of supplements, vitamins and drugs, believing that they are enhancing their game. "But it's really the belief in the mind that improves performance" in most cases, Ho says. "Athletes need to be cautious about 'snake oil' merchants." This article was originally published with the title "Duped by Doping" in SA Mind 19, 5, 6 (October 2008) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind1008-6 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.