Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue We often casually say that we are "hardwired" to feel certain ways or to have specific responses to events. But what do we really know about that neural wiring? How does it wend through the gelatinlike brain that contains all our hopes and dreams, all that makes us who we are? First of all, the telecom analogy isn't that far off. Our nervous system uses the fibers known as axons to ferry information, in the form of electrical signals, among nerve cells. How, however, can scientists observe what bioengineer and psychiatrist Karl Deisseroth calls this "neural tapestry" when the tissue around it is decidedly opaque? " ," by Deisseroth, examines an exciting new technology that provides "A Look inside the Brain." Scientists use polymers called hydrogels to create a see-through organ that retains its neural structures. This area of research has already begun to yield insights that will help us understand disorders such as parkinsonism, Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis and autism, among others. In addition to detailing the findings, the article also does something else that is uniquely characteristic of it narrates a personal scientific journey of discovery, told by the investigator himself, with rich informational explanatory graphics, for which our art team is widely admired. I do admit to a bit of a lifelong obsession about sharing the stories of science, especially given its role as a key driver of human progress. It's part of why I wanted us to create the annual " ," which we began a few years ago--a vision that executive editor Fred Guterl has made into a reality. In this year's report, we look at the challenges of communication for science: when that knowledge sharing is limited by others and when limiting occurs within the research communities themselves. Is there anyone in our audience who doesn't enjoy a scientific mystery? What, for instance, lies " "? This article, by Frank Postberg, Gabriel Tobie and Thorsten Dambeck, describes the increasing evidence for hydrothermal vents in the depths of one of Saturn's moons. On Earth, such bubbling vents are alive with fantastic-looking creatures, producing clusters of activity on an ocean bottom that can be otherwise forbidding. Could these vents be a place to look for life beyond our world? Another bit of intrigue for our marvelously wired brain networks to explore. This article was originally published with the title "New Views: Brains, Sciences, Oceans" in Scientific American  315, 4, 6 (October 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1016-6 Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.