Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Researchers find potential cures on the backs of sloths Treatments for human diseases often come from unexpected places. Several years ago microbiologist Sarah Higginbotham was talking with an ecologist colleague about how she looks for bioactive organisms--those that produce substances that inhibit the growth of other organisms. "When I told him I look for places where lots of organisms live together, he said, 'Sloths sound perfect,'" she says. Sloths are microbial jackpots because they move so slowly and infrequently and because their fur contains microscopic grooves that create a perfect breeding ground for algae, fungi, bacteria, cockroaches and caterpillars. Interest piqued, Higginbotham, during a temporary research stay at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute in Panama, obtained hair samples from nine three-toed sloths--the famously sedentary, tree-dwelling mammals from Central and South America. From the samples, she identified 28 different fungal strains, several of which might represent new species. (Chemical testing could help determine whether they are in fact new species.) Higginbotham, now at Queen's University Belfast, and her colleagues published a paper in confirming bioactivity in some of their fungal strains against the parasites that cause malaria and Chagas' disease, a breast cancer cell line and several types of harmful bacteria. In all, they discovered two dozen drug leads hiding in the fur of sloths. This article was originally published with the title "Fuzzy Discovery" in Scientific American  310, 4, 23 (April 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0414-23 Rachel Nuwer is a freelance journalist and author of (Da Capo Press, 2018). She lives in Brooklyn, N.Y. Credit: Nick Higgins April 1, 2014  --  THE EDITORS Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.