Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue   who used two online dating services and found nearly every flaw depicted in the article "The Truth about Online Dating," by Robert Epstein. I was especially put off by the assertion by one company that I was "not compatible" with certain ladies I wanted to meet and yet "compatible" with others who had one of the limiting characteristics I had listed at the company's suggestion. But the real problem arose when I tried to terminate my membership. I called and indicated my wishes, was given a confirmation number, and then my credit card was charged for the next two months. I notified my bank, but it refused to refund the money, saying I had given the company my number so the matter was between that business and me. Obviously, this was not the sort of long-term relationship I was looking for, so I canceled the card along with the dating "service."  McKinleyville, Calif.   Michael Wiederman, who wrote "Why It's So Hard to be Happy," could bring himself to tell a poor person that economic disadvantage is not really the cause of unhappiness but rather--on the authority of "evolutionary psychologists"--that discontentment is rooted in genetic adaptations in the distant past? These days social variables right under a researcher's nose, such as wealth and race, can respectably be ignored in favor of speculative inferences about prehistory. This article's equation of happiness with personal chemistry is a message mainly useful to the white middle class.  via e-mail     by R. Douglas Fields [Perspectives], greatly interested me because I have occasionally had an experience related to the screeching sounds his eyeballs make when he is half-asleep. I am lying in bed and have just woken up. I notice something strange: my tinnitus is gone! Wow, I think, this is wonderful. I am so happy to discover what silence is really like. But oddly, there are also no birds chirping away outside. Two seconds later: RRRRRIIIIIIINNNNNNGGGGG. My tinnitus is back, like a switch was turned on. And I hear birds chirping.  via e-mail  because I, too, can hear my eyeballs. For me, however, it is not a loud noise, just a swishing back and forth when I move them, usually at night before sleep, when it is quiet. So now there are three of us. Certainly there are many more who are just not "tuned in!"  Jamestown, R.I.       of a pedophile who is a registered sex offender. In "Abnormal Attraction," Peer Briken, Andreas Hill and Wolfgang Berner speak with hope about therapy for pedophiles. I see a clear stumbling block: our state's laws require all therapists to report to the police any situation in which they believe a child may be the target of sexual behavior. Do the ends justify the means here? Maybe, but the law makes therapists akin to cops with full power to arrest and prosecute. I frankly doubt a pedophile would trust a therapist and work with him or her under these conditions. I especially doubt that anyone who experiences pedophilic fantasies would seek help for these impulses before acting on them.  Maryland  my eyes at the defensive and somewhat condescending posture of those who treat pedophiles. Yes, the public knows that pedophilia is a disorder. No, the public does not think that therapists make excuses for or promote child abuse. What we object to is that, ultimately, the success or failure in treating pedophiles comes down to whether or not another child is sexually assaulted by one of these patients. Subjecting unsuspecting children to the uncertain outcomes of treatment experiments is as unacceptable as imposing medical trials on random and uninformed human test subjects.  Lakebay, Wash.  , I was dismayed to find several mistakes in an otherwise insightful article on pedophilia. The authors quote a study that found that "one in seven youngsters aged 10 to 17 received an online sexual solicitation in 2005." This study is not nearly as alarming as the authors make it out to be. The statistic is misleading because the term "sexual solicitation" is defined broadly as "requests to engage in sexual activities or sexual talk or give personal sexual information that were unwanted or, whether wanted or not, made by an adult." Using this definition, an 18-year-old who asks a 17-year-old if he or she is a virgin would be considered to be making a "sexual solicitation." In fact, almost half the "sexual solicitations" in the study came not from "predators" or older adults but from other teens--in many cases the equivalent of teen flirting. The authors' implication that one in seven children are approached by pedophiles is clearly not the case. The article also failed to report that most cases of child sexual abuse are not committed by convicted pedophiles but by trusted caregivers--relatives, clergy and family friends.  Managing editor    that you included a story on hoarding--"Love of Garbage," by Walter A. Brown--I was disappointed at the cursory treatment that you gave to this complex behavior that affects some one million to two million Americans. Hoarding can snowball from an individual's struggle to a community health concern, which is why many cities, such as New York and Los Angeles, have organized task forces that bring together families, social service providers, health agencies, fire departments and legal assistance groups. Research is being done to better understand how to identify hoarding early and treat it effectively. I hope that you will consider publishing additional articles on this important public health topic.  University of California, San Francisco School of Nursing This article was originally published with the title "February/March 2007 Issue" in SA Mind 18, 3, 4-6 (June 2007) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0607-4 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.