Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The president's 2018 proposal offers relatively small trims to drug control office After an outcry, the Trump administration has rolled back of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, instead asking for relatively small trims to the office and largely preserving two main grant programs. President Trump's --released Tuesday--is just a proposal; Congress actually allocates government spending. Still, the budget outlines the administration's priorities, and an email leaked earlier this month showed that Trump was considering cutting the office's $364 million budget by 95 percent. Those cuts would have eliminated two major grant programs the office coordinates: the drug-free communities program, which helps build coalitions to decrease substance use, and the high-intensity drug-trafficking area programs, which helps state and local law enforcement agencies fight drug trafficking. Instead, the Trump administration allocating $244 million to the drug-trafficking program, down from $247 million in the 2017 budget. For the communities program, the administration wants to spend $92 million, compared to $95 million last year. For the operations of the office, Trump a $2 million trim, from $20 million to $18 million. Politico the revised plans for the office's budget. After the potential cuts were disclosed, Trump administration officials, while noting that the proposal was just preliminary, defended any spending cuts by saying that the office duplicated work done by other federal agencies. But supporters of the office -- which is led by an official commonly called the "drug czar"-- that by working across the government, it actually ensures a more coordinated effort among the agencies. The office in recent years has been helping lead the government's fight against the growing opioid epidemic, which Trump has said is a priority of his. This month, White House counselor Kellyanne Conway and Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price on a listening tour related to the crisis, and faced questions about whether cutting the drug control office betrayed the administration's vow to tackle opioid addiction. Officials from both parties, especially people who had worked in the office in previous administrations and those from states hard hit by the opioid epidemic, had criticized gutting the agency as short-sighted. The Trump administration has not yet nominated a director for the office. STAT delivers fast, deep, and tough-minded journalism. We take you inside science labs and hospitals, biotech boardrooms, and political backrooms. We dissect crucial discoveries. We examine controversies and puncture hype. We hold individuals and institutions accountable. We introduce you to the power brokers and personalities who are driving a revolution in human health. These are the stories that matter to us all. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.