Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue In 2003 a patient known as TN lost his sight after suffering two successive strokes; the visual cortex in his brain was damaged and his vision was totally gone, although the eyes themselves were still healthy. During one examination years after he lost his sight, researchers were flabbergasted to see TN carefully navigate a hallway full of overturned chairs, scattered boxes and other obstacles without colliding with a single thing. How was this possible for a person who was completely blind? The human mind is capable of many remarkable feats. In this issue, scientists reveal what the latest research says about cognition and how we can improve our mental health. Plus, read up on some of the cutting-edge findings in neuroscience. In the case of TN, his doctors and other researchers characterized his condition as " " and discovered that the brain can act on signals received by the retina even if the person is not aware of what he or she is seeing. Indeed, the mind perceives and processes information with or without our awareness. Readings from functional MRI scans show that the even before we are aware we have made them. Consciousness can exist, but it can evade detection in vegetative patients. New research reveals that a small percentage of comatose patients . How can we boost brain health? Three types of meditation help to achieve . An active social life and the Mediterranean diet are two of a handful of tactics that may help . Some brain-training programs could also . We all know there is nothing like a good night's sleep--sack time enhances mood, memory, immune function and hormonal balance--and yet the scientific underpinnings for sleep . As Rafael Yuste and George M. Church , a century of research on the brain has only inched us toward complete understanding of this most crucial human organ. New technologies using DNA and optogenetics are certainly pushing us closer, but the enigmatic human mind may remain biology's final frontier for years to come. This article was originally published with the title "Your Marvelous Mind" in SA Special Editions 26, 3s, 1 (July 2017) Andrea Gawrylewski is the collections editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.