Read Our Latest Issue The Apple co-founder and personal computing visionary succumbed to pancreatic cancer Steve Jobs, the co-founder of , died Wednesday at age 56. The cause was pancreatic cancer. Jobs had been for at least 6 years, telling his employees in 2004 that he was being treated for the disease, and undergoing a l in 2009. On August 24, he announced to the board of Apple that he was stepping down as CEO, whereupon Tim Cook, the COO, took over. Jobs' death comes one day after the company, now under the helm of Tim Cook, announced the iPhone 4S, the latest in a series of handheld products that has catapaulted Apple as one of the leading device makers over the past decade, starting with the iPod and iTunes in 2001. Born in 1955, Jobs grew up in Cupertino, California, and co-founded Apple in 1975 with Steve Wozniak, building the company's first computer, the Apple 1 in his parents' garage. In 1977, they released the Apple II, the first mass-market personal computer. In 1985, Jobs was ousted as CEO of Apple, and went on to found NeXT Computer, which was purchased by Apple in 1996 for $400 million. Jobs, once again CEO of Apple, announced the iMac in 1998, an all-in-one computer that not only abandoned the drab beige boxes in favor of multiple colors, and also was the first notebook to eschew a floppy drive. That was followed the next year by the iBook, a laptop that also used the same bright colors as the iMac. Perhaps Jobs' biggest success, and indicator of his forward thinking, was the introduction of iTunes in 2001, which changed the way consumers purchase music. Combined with the iPod, it led to Apple's domination in the MP3 music player category. That was followed by the iPhone in 2007, the MacBook Air in 2008, and the iPad in 2010, all of which presaged explosive growth of devices in their respective categories. Following Jobs' death, Tim Cook sent out the following note to all Apple employees: (c) 2011 TechMediaNetwork.com. All rights reserved. Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.