Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Paying mindful attention to one's food leads people to eat less but savor it more Eating while distracted is well known to cause overindulgence, as confirmed by a recent review of 24 studies published in April 2013 in the . The exact mechanism behind such mindless bingeing, however, has been unclear. A recent study in suggests that mentally taxing tasks dampen our perception of taste, causing us to eat more. In four experiments, participants attempted to memorize either a seven-digit number (a heavy load on the brain) or one digit (a light cognitive load) while tasting salty, sweet and sour substances and rating each food's taste intensity. In all experiments, participants under the heavy cognitive load rated each type of taste as less intense, and they also ate more of the sweet and salty substances. The researchers believe cognitive load may compete with sensory input for our attention. Other studies have found that simply paying mindful attention to one's food--fully focusing on its taste, aroma and texture, for example--leads to less intake. This study adds yet another reason not to multitask at mealtime: your food will taste better. This article was originally published with the title "Food Tastes Bland while Multitasking" in SA Mind 25, 2, 11 (March 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0314-11b Tori Rodriguez is a journalist and psychotherapist based in Atlanta. Her writing has also appeared in the and . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.