Read Our Latest Issue and stars Adam Savage and Michael Stevens weigh in on the role of their new show in communicating science Adam Savage and Michael Stevens, two big names in science entertainment, symbolize successive paradigm shifts in the genre: Savage pioneered the personality-driven, blow-it-up TV spectacle that made cultural phenomena of science shows like in the early 2000s; Stevens has fueled YouTube's rise as a science communication hub for digital-age audiences via his popular thought-experiment channel, and his new YouTube Red program, . As the year gets underway--and as science communication increasingly confronts a world of "alternative facts"--Savage and Stevens are setting off on a 40-city science presentation called which launches this month. asked the hosts to talk about their tour, future projects and the role of science communication under a new political administration. [ ] Launching in 2003, propelled Savage--a natural entertainer who turned the scientific method into a sometimes edgy and often hilarious spectacle--from special effects technician to nerd superstar. For 13 seasons the show kept millions of curious viewers spellbound by empiricism made explosive, and empowered Adam to help build , a nerd-culture digital magazine, along with his co-star, Jamie Hyneman, and a few associates. Since ' finale, aside from YouTube videos he has been conspicuously absent from major entertainment projects--until now. I discovered at a point in my career that the scientific method and the Aristotelian narrative arc grid beautifully on top of each other...and what we're applying in this show is that science and art, which are most often portrayed as two ends of a spectrum, are in fact both just forms of storytelling. One of the things that never was, was a science demonstration show. We never set up a classic tabletop science demo and said, "Here's the concept we were referring to." We were always experimenting, because Jamie and I don't have a degree in science. And with there are more scientific demonstrations. [Kids] who are "science geeks." One of the things I love about meeting those kids is that they are just as freaked out to see and meet me in person as any given kid. ... But the science kids, they get over that weirdness almost instantly and want to actually talk to me about the mechanics and the science of the stuff we did on the show. Well, the biggest thing that can happen is that people who have real scientific literacy, they're going to be willing to have their minds changed. Please have another White House Science Fair. Please have another White House Maker Fair. Help keep inspiring kids from the highest office in the U.S. that these things are not beyond them. It's the kids. Although the popular YouTube show originally focused on video game comedy when it was started in 2010, host Michael Stevens was soon lured to educational content by his love of impossible questions. Now among YouTube's most popular communicators, he heads a network of educational channels and hosts the new YouTube Red series, --and (soon) . I've done a few speaking engagements before where I'll tell facts and do a sort of fun version of a video, but live...I've always wanted to do more of that. And when I heard that Adam Savage wanted a touring partner, I was like, "Obviously I'm interested." I think all living organisms have some form of curiosity--even if it's just that they are buffeted by Brownian motion, and that allows them to do random walks. That allows them to find food. I think that it is, in the case of , especially true that curiosity has put us where we are today. Well, I would love to do more demonstrations, but specifically computer-generated ones. There are a lot of hypothetical questions that would be fun to talk about, but would be better to show. I think a lot of it had to do with my parents, obviously. And a lot of the books and gadgets my dad had, or that I was given as a child, really fostered an interest in the scientific method and understanding the properties of the world. I'm really thankful for that. One is pretty much every episode of because I had to be involved. I had to be there with the participants. In many cases we were exploring things that we might not like about ourselves--or that make us question our own memories. That might make us question our own intentions and fears--and it's very personal. ... I'd also say that the episode I did last year on Alzheimer's was a very personal and difficult one, because Alzheimer's took my grandfather in October. In a way, it took him even earlier than that. It was raising awareness, and part of that is breaking down misconceptions--you know? Where people think things like, "Oh well, dementia is inevitable. It happens to all old people. Once you're over a certain age, you're going to be all mentally bad." That is true, and we shouldn't resign ourselves to thinking that. September 12, 2014  --  Elena Malykhina December 5, 2016  --  Kathleen Higgins and Nature magazine September 8, 2016  --  Thomas Vinciguerra Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.