Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Managing Editor Claudia Wallis introduces the July/August 2015 issue of From the moment we emerge into this bright, bustling world, our perceptions and experiences are inscribed on the circuits and structures of our brain. Sights, sounds, tastes, personal encounters of all sorts leave their neural imprint, stamping us as unique individuals. But arguably, it all begins with that most rudimentary of senses: touch. "Touch is the first sense to emerge in utero, and though far from mature, it is the most strongly developed sense at birth," writes Brooklyn, N.Y.-based science writer Lydia Denworth in our cover story, " ." Scientists have long been familiar with the tactile nerves that transmit pain, texture and temperature. The surprising news is that we also have nerve fibers uniquely adapted for the kind of "social touching" we do when we soothe or greet one another or cuddle a child. These fibers are calibrated for strokes that are slow and gentle (below about five millinewtons), and they are abundant in the parts of the body we instinctively pat: the shoulders and back, the top of the head. Salespeople and politicians know how to use social touch to create trust. Intriguingly, this system may be impaired in people with autism. At the other extreme from this primal sensation is a whole new world of stimulation from modern technology. Past stories in have touched on ways that cell phones and television affect cognitive function. In this issue, journalist and former researcher Simon Makin at whether brain-training games--such as those offered by Lumosity--really can improve your thinking and stave off dementia. Technology also plays a starring role in an extraordinary first-person account by Amanda Boxtel, who tells how, 18 years after becoming paralyzed in a ski accident, she learned to walk again . In a companion article, " ," Ariel Bleicher reports on next-generation exoskeletons that will have brain-machine interfaces to communicate directly with the user's nervous system. This is the first issue I've had the privilege of overseeing as 's new managing editor. I'm eager to hear from you, our readers, about the stories you read here and those you would like to see. Find us at the e-mail address below and at that digital version of social touch--Facebook. This article was originally published with the title "From Touch to Technology" in SA Mind 26, 4, 1 (July 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0715-1 Managing Editor 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.