Read Our Latest Issue Professional astronomers and amateurs tapped their creativity to capture the first annular eclipse visible in the U.S. since 1994 Sunday lived up to its name this past weekend, as countless skywatchers in the western U.S. took in . An annular eclipse occurs when the moon passes directly in front of the sun but its apparent size, from Earth's perspective, is too small to completely cover the solar disk. During the May 20 eclipse, the moon covered as much as 94 percent of the sun, leaving . (The apparent diameters of the sun and moon change over time; this is especially true for the moon, because its distance to Earth varies significantly over the course of its monthly elliptical orbit.) The eclipse was visible in , from Oregon to Texas, as well as in parts of Asia. A partial eclipse was visible from many more locations. Some observers documented the event using professional-quality astrophotography rigs complete with solar filters; some used binoculars to project the eclipse onto a screen for safe viewing. (Viewing the eclipse directly through binoculars could cause severe eye damage.) Other enthusiasts used makeshift pinhole devices--a colander, a clenched hand--whereas many relied on the natural pinhole-filtering effect of sunlight streaming between tree branches and leaves. We chose 10 photos of the eclipse--captured by professionals, by amateurs and by one Earth-orbiting spacecraft--that represent the myriad views different people had of the same event.  John Matson is a former reporter and editor for who has written extensively about astronomy and physics. May 22, 2012  --  John Matson October 25, 2011  --  John Matson November 27, 2009  --  John Matson July 8, 2011  --  THE EDITORS July 7, 2011  --  Dave Mosher November 23, 2010  --  Ed Bell Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.