Read Our Latest Issue Content providers and users are still far apart on proposed Internet piracy-protection legislation as alternative bill is offered Rather than deliver an ultimatum to those on either side of the debate, the related to the Stop Online Piracy Act (SOPA) and PROTECT IP Act of 2011 (PIPA) encourages the entertainment and technology industries to work together to find a solution. This call for a back-to-the-drawing-board approach to clamping down on Internet intellectual-property piracy while preserving free speech has many wondering whether lawmakers will simply rework SOPA and PIPA using different language or if they will take anti-SOPA and anti-PIPA concerns to heart.  The Obama administration is not backing down when it comes to shutting down foreign sites that distribute content illegally. However, the administration's position--articulated by Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator , U.S. Chief Technology Officer and Cyber Security Coordinator --also makes it clear that any proposed laws "must not tamper with the technical architecture of the Internet through manipulation of the domain name system , a foundation of Internet security." In addition, new legislation must target specific lawbreakers rather than broadly punishing Internet intermediaries such as online advertising networks, payment processors and search engines.  Under SOPA (introduced by Rep. Lamar Smith, R-Tex., in October) and PIPA (by Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vt., last May), Congress sought to prevent Internet users from accessing foreign sites with pirated content by having service providers block those sites' domain names. The proposed legislation also threatened to punish any search engine providers, payment network providers and Internet advertising services that continued to support those infringing sites.  SOPA and PIPA's primary supporters are organizations--the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) and Rupert Murdoch-owned News Corp. among them--that invest heavily in creating movies, television programs and other content that makes its way to the Internet. The legislation's most vocal opponents have included , Google, , Yahoo and --Web-based entities that benefit from this content.   , news-aggregator and a number of other Web sites are planning to take the English-language version of their sites offline on Wednesday to protest the legislation, even though SOPA and PIPA are likely on their last legs. These sites' reasons for opposing SOPA and PIPA are clear--namely that they would lose access to free content if that content is found to published illegally on the Web. Less clear, however, is how such a blackout would further their goal of stopping such legislation or any related proposals that might follow.  Rep. Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) and Sen. Ron Wyden (D-Ore.) have already proposed an alternate bill called the Online Protection and Enforcement of Digital Trade Act (OPEN) , which would use international trade law to . The MPAA opposes Issa's bill, saying that it would be "cumbersome" and vows to continue lobbying for SOPA and PIPA, reports. Larry Greenemeier is the associate editor of technology for , covering a variety of tech-related topics, including biotech, computers, military tech, nanotech and robots. Credit: Nick Higgins Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.