Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The title of this issue is a bit misleading. A fully explanatory and complete title would have gone something like: "Scientists Confirm Long-Standing Theory of Sun's Power, but As with All Science, Many Questions Remain and New Ones Are Revealed." Exhaustive, yes. Catchy? No. Though when it comes to attention-grabbing-if-slightly-truncated headlines, this one still holds water. As reporter Davide Castelvecchi reports, astrophysicists have long hypothesized that a small amount of the sun's energy is generated by a particular reaction involving carbon and nitrogen in the star's core, and can be detected by neutrino emissions (see " "). It's always extremely satisfying when a scientific explanation is finally confirmed by direct evidence. In this case, the way that evidence was collected is fascinating, as are some of the further questions relevant to this research: What are the precise composition and temperature of the sun? What was our star like before the rest of the solar system formed? In science, it often goes that as soon as you've answered one question, you inadvertently have asked a dozen more. Call that frustrating or intriguing as you will. Conflicting evidence about the weight of the cosmos is fueling a growing debate among physicists over the formation of the universe (see " "). And the surprise detection of radio bursts from within our own galaxy may help us resolve a larger cosmological phenomenon (see "' "). But, you guessed it, this discovery is inciting a host of new questions waiting to be answered. I, for one, am intrigued. This article was originally published with the title "The Scientific Question Machine" in SA Space & Physics 3, 4,  (August 2020) Andrea Gawrylewski is the collections editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.