Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Reviews and recommendations from by Barry Schwartz Simon & Schuster/TED Books, 2015 ($16.99) "Men labor under a mistake. The better part of the man is soon plowed into the soil for compost." So wrote Henry David Thoreau in his 1854 classic, , and so confirms the Gallup organization based on recent surveys of 25 million people in 189 countries. Work frustrates rather than fulfills almost 90 percent of the world's workforce. Most people work because they need money, but scholars have long known that money is not what people most want from work. In fact, J. D. Houser's 1938 book, , put money 21st on the list, and Robert Hoppock's extensive study entitled , published in 1935, found that the best predictors of workplace satisfaction were autonomy, variety, security, appreciation, positive relationships and opportunities for advancement. In , Schwartz, a psychology professor at Swarthmore College, promises to explain why the modern work experience falls so far short of this ideal. Unfortunately, he does so mainly by criticizing the views of three straw men: Adam Smith, the 18th-century author of , and 20th-century thinkers Frederick Taylor, the inventor of management science, and B. F. Skinner, a pioneer of behavioral psychology. All three wrote about the power of incentives--promised rewards--and Schwartz's book is largely a diatribe against what he calls the "incentive theory of everything." In education, medicine and law, in particular, Schwartz says, the focus on efficiency and profitability has robbed practitioners of the intrinsic motivators that drew them to these professions in the first place. All three professions have turned into assembly lines in which behavior is scripted to maximize gain. But virtually any job, Schwartz notes, can be made satisfying if it is modified to boost autonomy and to include "variety, complexity, skill development, and growth." (Sound familiar?) The problem with this proposed fix is that he largely glosses over why many business owners and executives avoid such practices. Efficiency and profitability are important, after all. The small family farm provided meaningful experiences for workers, sure, but it did not produce much food. Ironically, Schwartz mentions Google as an exception to what he sees as the modern obsession with incentive-based management, overlooking the fact that Google employees are chauffeured to work each morning in leather-appointed buses and fed free of charge by gourmet chefs. seems superficial, perhaps in part because the author was incentivized to present his views in a fast-moving, assembly-line format. TED talks are limited to 18 minutes, and the new TED Books, of which this is one, are limited to about 100 pages. Now that would be an intriguing topic for a TED book: how to get people to pay attention to in-depth discussions about complex issues that cannot be explored adequately in the blink of an eye. This article was originally published with the title "Labor Pains: Why We Work" in SA Mind 26, 5, 68 (September 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0915-68a Robert Epstein, senior research psychologist at the American Institute for Behavioral Research and Technology in Vista, Calif., is a contributing editor for and former editor in chief of . His latest book is (Linden Publishing, 2010). 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.