Read Our Latest Issue A Q&A with the writers of a new two-volume set that boldly goes to explore the "childish antics," ego clashes, missed opportunities and prescient brilliance behind the scenes of one of TV's most successful franchises The starship began its mission to explore strange new worlds in 1966, and for the past 50 years has inspired countless fans with stories of adventurers boldly going where no one has gone before. Although the original series ended in 1969, creator Gene Roddenberry's vision went on to live long and prosper, inspiring five other television series and 13 movies. The latest film, , debuted in July. Moreover, a sixth TV series helmed by Bryan Fuller--who began his career writing on two previous series--promises to seek out new life and new civilizations when it premieres in 2017. To help the curious peer behind the scenes of the legend, Edward Gross and Mark Altman collected an oral history of the franchise, interviewing hundreds of television and film cast members, executives, writers, creators and fans. The first book in the two-volume set-- --was released on June 28. came out August 30. spoke with Gross and Altman to learn more about the never-before-told and often shocking tales they heard. [ .] Gross: I think Toshiro Mifune (an actor who starred in , and many other films) would've probably been the most formidable Klingon ever seen. (The unproduced film , which reached the script and design phases of production, would have thrown the crew of the back in time to become the Titans of Greek myth, fighting a Klingon captain played by Mifune along the way.) Altman: My favorite casting choice that never happened was Lindsay Wagner (star of ) as Capt. Janeway (of ). Gross: What the classic Roddenberry memo says to me is that we have human beings behind these things, and that TV shows can really get derailed by egos. We can look back at now that it's the 50th anniversary and say how wonderful it is--but boy oh boy, did it fight for its life in the beginning, and there was fighting behind the scenes, too. Gross: Roddenberry came up with the concept, and knew there was something special about a future where lots of different kinds of people worked alongside each other. It gave hope in a time of hopelessness. And now in 2016 it can still seem hopeless out there, and can still present a vision where we can aspire to be better than we are. But his actual writing on didn't often live up to his vision. He was smart enough to bring people in. He was a great concept man. Altman: There's no denying that Gene Roddenberry's contribution to was unparalleled. He was a visionary. And if you look at his work on [the TV series] or , you can see what a talented writer he was. However, like all of us, he was a flawed human being. Altman: My feeling is if you're not interested in a warts-and-all story of the behind the scenes making of these series, or any series, don't read the book. The book is not gossipy, but it is honest. We weren't interested in telling another whitewashed or legacy-perpetuating chronicle of the series. What I often say is the true story of has more drama, betrayal and skulduggery than any episode of , which is why it's a story that's likely to appeal to nonfans as well as Trekkers. Altman: There's a great line in homage to : "79 episodes, 30 good ones." I would argue 30 great ones, but they're not wrong. But even an episode like "Spock's Brain," which is misguided in so many ways, can be wonderfully enjoyable, particularly when looked at as a reflection of the time where heart transplantation was first becoming a viable medical procedure. And even episodes like "Specter of the Gun," which at face value is absurd--aliens pit Kirk, Spock, McCoy, Scotty and Chekov against the Earps in Tombstone, Ariz.--is so beautifully photographed, surreally designed and beautifully scored by Jerry Fielding, who later did , that you can't help but appreciate its sublime genius. Gross: It's amazing to me that this thing is still going. But the concept of exploring ourselves through the prism of the future, commenting on where we are and where we're going, that doesn't ever have to go away. Altman: I am so hopeful and optimistic about the future of . Bryan Fuller is not only a huge fan but a visionary writer with an incredible visual and aesthetic sense, and I for one can't wait to see what he brings to the screen in January. If he does his job well, as I suspect he and his team of super-scribes will, we'll still be talking and writing abut in another 50 years. Charles Q. Choi is a frequent contributor to . His work has also appeared in and among others. In his spare time, he has traveled to all seven continents. Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.