Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue In the 1967 episode of "The City on the Edge of Forever," the crew of the finds itself on an alien planet and discovers a large, doughnut-shaped machine referred to as a "time portal" that can transport anyone across spacetime to any time or place in the universe. Though not explicitly called a wormhole, it is one of the earliest appear- ances of the theorized cosmological phenomenon in popular science fiction. And certainly not the last. The intriguing prospect of traversing hundreds of millions of light-years in an instant is explored by numerous films, from Thor to Inter- stellar--not to mention several more episodes of Star Trek in all the various iterations of the franchise over many decades. But the existence of wormholes, while hypothesized, has never been proved and remains a controversial topic in physics. As Jonathan O'Callaghan explains in " " a team of researchers now proposes that we might be able to determine the existence of a wormhole by mea- suring gravitational pulls from stars on the other side of the portal. It's a fascinating premise, and we won't have to wait until stardate 48579.6 to get the results. In a special report in this issue, we present some of the latest news on quantum technology. Investments are pouring into this research that promises to revolutionize encryption, medical imaging and basic computing, as Elizabeth Gibney writes in " ," the first article of this series. But will the upfront costs bear fruit? Many physicists are betting that this new wave of technology will live long and prosper. (Sorry, I had to.) This article was originally published with the title "Wormholes within Reach?" in SA Space & Physics 2, 6,  (December 2019) Andrea Gawrylewski is the collections editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.