Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Researchers solve a long-standing phylogenetic mystery In 1955 amateur fossil hunter Francis Tully discovered an exceedingly odd specimen in Mazon Creek, a collecting hotspot near Chicago. Imprinted on Tully's rock were the remains of a tubular creature with stalk eyeballs and a long mouth apparatus terminating in a feature that resembled an alligator clip. Dubbed the Tully monster, the 300-million-year-old specimen later became Illinois's official state fossil. Despite its popularity, though, researchers have made neither heads nor tails of it--until now. According to findings published in , the organism traces its evolutionary legacy to modern-day lampreys: jawless, bloodsucking fish. Researchers arrived at this conclusion after analyzing 1,200 Tully monster specimens--most about 15 to 20 centimeters long--and realizing that what was previously assumed to be part of the creature's gut is actually a notochord, a primitive backbone. The notochord's downward curvature pointed the team toward lampreys, which also share that physiological quirk. Victoria McCoy, a paleontologist at the University of Leicester in England who led the study while at Yale University, is not ready to declare the case closed, however. "We still know very little about how the Tully monster lived," she says. "But we can now use modern lampreys and other fishes as analogues and, we hope, start to better understand the mysterious lifestyle of this ancient monster." This article was originally published with the title "Monster Comes Out of Hiding" in Scientific American  314, 5, 13 (May 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0516-13 Rachel Nuwer is a freelance journalist and author of (Da Capo Press, 2018). She lives in Brooklyn, N.Y. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.