Read Our Latest Issue U.S. plans to cut emissions 4 percent below 1990 levels by 2020--other countries such as China, India will submit plans, as well The U.S. officially committed in writing yesterday to the --4 percent below 1990 levels by 2020. The letter to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) commits the nation to combat climate change, but with a caveat: any such commitment must be backed by legislation, which has not passed the U.S. Senate.  "The U.S. submission reflects President Obama's continued commitment to meeting the climate change and clean energy challenge through robust domestic and international action that will strengthen our economy, enhance our national security, and protect our environment," said U.S. climate negotiator Todd Stern in a . "We expect that all major economies will honor their agreement in Copenhagen to submit their mitigation targets or actions."  Already, four major developing countries--Brazil, China, India and South Africa--have by the January 31 deadline as part of the Copenhagen Accord. China will cut its carbon intensity (the amount of greenhouse gas emitted per widget produced) by at least 40 percent; India has promised a similar intensity cut of at least 20 percent. Brazil, meanwhile, has passed a law that requires the country to cut greenhouse gas emissions by at least 36 percent below present values by 2020, whereas South Africa will slow the rise of its greenhouse gas emissions from coal by 34 percent by the same year. Also, the below 1990 levels by 2020.  At least , representing more than 70 percent of global greenhouse gas emissions, according to the U.S. Climate Action Network. "The Copenhagen Accord reflects a political consensus on the long-term, global response to climate change," said UNFCCC Executive Secretary Yvo de Boer at a January 20 press conference. "If countries follow up Copenhagen's outcomes calmly, with eyes firmly fixed on the advantage of collective action, they have every chance of completing the job."  The Copenhagen Accord, however, is --something the world now hopes to have in place for the next global climate summit in Mexico City this fall. That means the accord's provisions may or may not be honored.  But the --at facilities ranging from the U.S. Department of Defense to the Post Office--by 28 percent by 2020, regardless of legislative action, per . The U.S. currently operates more than 600,000 vehicles, purchases more than $500 billion in goods and services, and occupies nearly 500,000 buildings--all of which will now be subject to a series of goals, such as a 30 percent reduction in petroleum use by 2020.  For example, the Internal Revenue Service will revamp its facility in Andover, Md., to reduce energy use by more than 25 percent through light monitors, , efficient electrical devices, and a geothermal heating and cooling system.  "As the largest energy consumer in the United States, we have a responsibility to American citizens to reduce our energy use and become more efficient," Obama said in a prepared statement to announce the programs. "Our goal is to lower costs, reduce pollution, and shift federal energy expenses away from oil and towards local, clean energy." David Biello is a contributing editor at . November 30, 2009 December 18, 2009  --  Steve Mirsky December 18, 2009 December 18, 2009  --  David Biello December 15, 2009  --  David Biello January 14, 2010  --  Douglas Fischer and The Daily Climate Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.