Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Coining it in? 
 
(Credit:
WeUseCoins/YouTube Screenshot by Chris Matyszczyk/CNET)
 
 




 The things you don't think about can often bring you the most joy. The things you don't think about can often bring you the most joy. They manifest themselves to you at the most wonderful moments. Yes, sometimes they then leave you for a children's party magician, but that's not what happened to Kristoffer Koch. In 2009, this no-doubt relaxed Norwegian wafted about his computer and decided to do a little online shopping. He spent 150 kroner (around $25.43) on some Bitcoins. Actually, it was slightly more complex than that. At the time, he was writing a thesis about encryption and happened upon Bitcoin in passing. , he made his purchase and then forgot all about it. But once the Winklevii invest in something, you know it's going to be big. Indeed, earlier this year, the famous twins claimed .  So, with the non-governmental currency more in the news, Koch wondered just what his might be worth. It turned out to be 5 million Norwegian krone (around $848,000). Beat that, Big Boy Buffett. Koch told NRK that it took him a while to locate the encrypted password. But soon he began to convert his Bitcoin into real coin, getting around $75,000 every day. "Every morning I went online banking and saw that the account had grown," he told NRK, via my Google Translate button. He decided to do the sensible thing. He bought an apartment, which is currently being renovated. The sudden windfall may have helped his personal life. When he made his original purchase, his girlfriend was less than impressed. Koch said: "She thinks I spend money on a lot of nonsense. I buy various technical gizmos that I never have time to use, and this was the worst of all, I bought nonsense money." Nonsense can, indeed, make you a fortune. Just ask most Silicon Valley companies. Oddly, his girlfriend is now, according to Koch, rather more impressed with his spending skills. The value of Bitcoins isn't stable, but , should you happen to have also bought some in the long distant past. Wordpress and OK Cupid are among the companies that now recognize the currency. So if you have Bitcoins, you might also be able to use them to create something very beautiful and then share it with someone you'd like to love. What might the next great investment be? Well, I just Googled that for you. Number one result: . Number two: Number three: . Number Four: . I prefer to stick to serendipity. It's just more exciting. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.