Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue What looks like a soap bubble is actually a 3-D simulation of a supernova--or rather a failed attempt at a supernova. Cosmic explosions mark the death of massive stars and are some of the most energetic phenomena in the universe, but they are not all-or-nothing events: some supernovae halt before they ever take off, as a new supercomputer simulation detailed in the . The simulation modeled a class of supernovae that start from fast-spinning, highly magnetized stars. To the researchers' surprise, the program showed that such supernovae easily stall. If the magnetic field around the star is less than perfectly symmetrical, tiny kinks can become major instabilities that cause matter from the star to push out in the lopsided bulbs seen here. The process prevents the star from blowing up in typical supernova fashion. To understand what ultimately becomes of these aborted explosions, the scientists, led by California Institute of Technology astrophysicists Philipp Mosta and Christian Ott, say they will need an extended simulation on a more powerful supercomputer. This article was originally published with the title "What Is It?" in Scientific American  311, 1, 26 (July 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0714-26a Clara Moskowitz is a senior editor at . She covers space and physics. Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.