Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A new type of lens adjusts its prescription according to where the user looks As people age, they often require bifocals or several pairs of glasses to see objects both near and far. Deep Optics, a technology start-up based in Israel, is working on an alternative: eyeglasses that automatically refocus on any target at which the wearer looks. The "omnifocals" adjust focal length by relying on the interaction between an electric current and liquid crystal, a material in which molecules act like both liquids and solids. Although some smartphone camera lenses already include this technology, the effect has yet to be achieved in larger lenses. So far Deep Optics has built a small 20-by-20-millimeter working lens and a distance-detection system--two components that, once integrated, can essentially change the prescription of the glasses in an instant depending on where the person directs his or her gaze. The company plans to have a full-size prototype ready for testing and demonstration in about two years. CEO Yariv Haddad says this technology may also find a place in augmented- and virtual-reality devices, which currently display objects from a single distance and can therefore cause disorienting blurriness. This article was originally published with the title "Eyeglasses, No Prescription Necessary" in Scientific American  314, 6, 22 (June 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0616-22 Jordana Cepelewicz is a science writer based in New York City. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.