Read Our Latest Issue Excerpts from a new book reveal the "geo-architecture" of New York City A few dozen New Yorkers experienced their city at a new pace earlier this month. "Even the concrete we're standing on is changing," said artist Elizabeth Ellsworth, gesturing at the pockmarked floor of Studio-X in Lower Manhattan. "Everything in the city is a dynamic force."  Ellsworth and her collaborator, Jamie Kruse, were there to celebrate the launch of their new book. (smudge studio, 2011) highlights 20 urban sites where humans interact with the region's complex geologic cycles. The water flowing from a New Yorker's faucet began as rain that trickled into an underground aquifer in the Catskill Mountains north of the city thousands of years ago. The metals used in skyscrapers and cars first were used to build our planet 4.5 billion years ago, and accumulated in rock formations thereafter. The calcium in 600,000 skeletons decomposing in Brooklyn's Green-Wood began as igneous or limestone rock, thrust upward by the imperceptibly slow movement of Earth's crust; over millions of years, weathering released the rocks' calcium for uptake by plants, animals and humans.  The authors demonstrate that, in innumerable ways, the is intricately interwoven with processes that are far older than life itself.  Jessica Veenstra, an environmental scientist who bought the book, is excited to show it to her students at Flagler College in Saint Augustine, Fla. "In a lot of places you'll read about humans being separate from nature, not being treated as geologic actors," she says. "This book puts people into these cycles in a fun way."  The book's thought-provoking and whimsical images also belie a plea for environmental responsibility. "Humans need to understand deep time because we are capable of influencing the Earth for millions of years into the future," Ellsworth says. "We didn't evolve to contemplate it, but now we need to."  The human brain may not be hardwired to comprehend the billions of years of history that have shaped the modern environment, but there is hope, the authors wrote. As demonstrates, the concepts that exceed human intelligence "can be experienced indirectly, through aesthetic works and acts of the imagination."  September 22, 2011  --  Sarah Fecht October 30, 2008  --  Steve Mirsky April 27, 2011 Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.