Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The agency's current director has said he would be willing to stay Two leading candidates to serve as director of the National Institutes of Health in the next administration met with President-elect Donald Trump on Wednesday. The president-elect met at Trump Tower with , the current NIH director, and of Maryland, who has expressed an interest in serving in the administration. Collins, who has led the agency for eight years under President Barack Obama, he would be willing to stay on as director if asked by Trump. Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker who has advised Trump over the last year, also told STAT that Collins was under serious consideration. Collins has been endorsed by several leading congressional Republicans, but some researchers outside Washington have urged Trump to consider another candidate. An obstetric anesthesiologist, Harris is the only member of Congress to have conducted NIH-funded research. He for lowering the average age of NIH grant recipients and said he would like to see more "high-risk, high-reward" research conducted by the agency. Peter Thiel, the Silicon Valley mogul, is said to be on appointments to science and technology positions in the Trump administration. He also met with the president-elect on Wednesday. It is not known, however, whom he favors for NIH. STAT delivers fast, deep, and tough-minded journalism. We take you inside science labs and hospitals, biotech boardrooms, and political backrooms. We dissect crucial discoveries. We examine controversies and puncture hype. We hold individuals and institutions accountable. We introduce you to the power brokers and personalities who are driving a revolution in human health. These are the stories that matter to us all. Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.