Read Our Latest Issue A dense science project Physics Chemistry Density Gas If you've ever accidentally let go of a helium-filled balloon while outdoors, then you know that some gases are less dense than others. In the case of your helium balloon, it most likely floated away before you could catch it because helium is much lighter (or less dense) than the air in our environment. We don't often think about gases having density--but they do! In this activity you'll explore the different densities of some common household gases, including the air that you exhale! All of the materials we encounter on a daily basis, from our toothpaste to our dinner plates, are made up of different types of atoms. Atoms are the smallest units of matter that retain the properties of their chemical element. The type and arrangement of these different atoms account for the different characteristics of all the solids, liquids and gases in our environment. These characteristics include properties known as density, mass and volume. The density of an object is the relationship between its mass (weight) and its volume (amount of space it takes up). The mass of an object's atoms, their size and how they are arranged all determine its density. If we know an object's mass and volume, we can figure out the density using the equation: density = mass/volume From this equation we can also observe that if two objects have the same volume but one weighs more than the other, than the two objects have different densities. If you have a die made from plastic and another die of the same size made from lead, the one made from lead will feel heavier. Because the two dice are the same size, we know the lead is denser than the plastic. Differences in density have to do with the size of the atoms as well as how tightly they are packed together. The atoms that comprise metal are generally heavier than those of plastic, and are packed more closely together. In this activity you will be observing the density of different gases--and how differences in density affect how an object behaves.   In this activity you created the gas carbon dioxide (CO2) by combining baking soda and vinegar. Both are known as the reactants--in this reaction because they undergo a change while taking part in the reaction. Vinegar is weakly acidic whereas baking soda is a bicarbonate. When they are combined, a two-step reaction takes place. The first step of the reaction is an acid-base reaction, and the second step is a decomposition reaction. When both steps are complete, the final products are CO2 and water (H2O). When you added the baking soda to the vinegar, you should have observed bubbling and foaming in the bottle. This was the CO2 gas being produced and released. The reaction produced too much CO2 for the bottle to hold, however. As a result, the CO2 gas escaped into Balloon A and the balloon expanded. Once all of the baking soda mixed with the vinegar, the contents of the bottle were CO2 and H2O. When there was nothing left to react, the reaction ended. Your next step in this activity was measuring the rate that the two different balloons dropped to the ground. As you know, Balloon A contained CO2 from the baking soda and vinegar reaction. In contrast, Balloon B contained the air you exhaled while blowing it up. The air we exhale is mostly nitrogen and oxygen, and only about 4 to 5 percent carbon dioxide. Therefore, you were measuring whether the mostly pure carbon dioxide in Balloon A dropped more quickly than the mostly nitrogen and oxygen gas in Balloon B. You should have found that Balloon A dropped more quickly to the ground than Balloon B. You probably noticed that Balloon B encountered greater air resistance on the way to the floor. Balloon B's path might not have been straight down, instead the balloon may have floated around as it fell. Because both balloons were the same size (or volume) but one fell more quickly than the other, our results tell us the CO2 gas in Balloon A is denser than the combination of gases found in Balloon B.  , from  from Science Buddies  , from  from Science Buddies 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.