Read Our Latest Issue "Briefly, tachyons are theoretically postulated particles that travel faster
than light and have 'imaginary' masses. imaginary mass is a
bizarre theoretical concept that comes from taking the square root of a negative
number; in this case, it roughly means that a particle's mass is only physically
meaningful at speeds greater than light.] "The name 'tachyon' (from the Greek
'tachys,' meaning swift) was coined by the late Gerald Feinberg of Columbia
University. Tachyons have never been found in experiments as real particles
traveling through the vacuum, but we predict theoretically that tachyon-like
objects exist as faster-than-light 'quasiparticles' moving through laser-like
media. (That is, they exist as particle-like excitations, similar to other
quasiparticles called phonons and polaritons that are found in solids.
'Laser-like media' is a technical term referring to those media that have
inverted atomic populations, the conditions prevailing inside a laser.) "We are
beginning an experiment at Berkeley to detect tachyon-like quasiparticles. There
are strong scientific reasons to believe that such quasiparticles really exist,
because Maxwell's equations, when coupled to inverted atomic media, lead
inexorably to tachyon-like solutions. "Quantum optical effects can produce a different kind of 'faster than light'
effect (see "Faster than light?" by R. Y. Chiao, P. G. Kwiat, and A. M. Steinberg
in , August 1993). There are actually two different
kinds of 'faster-than-light' effects that we have found in quantum optics
experiments. (The tachyon-like quasiparticle in inverted media described above is
yet a third kind of faster-than-light effect.) "First, we have discovered that photons which tunnel through a quantum barrier
can apparently travel faster than light (see "Measurement of the Single-Photon
Tunneling Time" by A. M. Steinberg, P. G. Kwiat, and R. Y. Chiao, , Vol. 71, page 708; 1993). Because of the uncertainty
principle, the photon has a small but very real chance of appearing suddenly on
the far side of the barrier, through a quantum effect (the 'tunnel effect') which
would seem impossible according to classical physics. The tunnel effect is so
fast that it seems to occur faster than light. "Second, we have found an effect related to the famous Einstein-Podolsky-Rosen
phenomenon, in which two distantly separated photons can apparently influence one
anothers' behaviors at two distantly separated detectors (see "High-Visibility
Interference in a Bell-Inequality Experiment for Energy and Time," by P. G.
Kwiat, A. M. Steinberg, and R. Y. Chiao, , Vol. 47, page
R2472; 1993). This effect was first predicted theoretically by Prof. J. D.
Franson of Johns Hopkins University. We have found experimentally that twin
photons emitted from a common source (a down-conversion crystal) behave in a
correlated fashion when they arrive at two distant interferometers. This
phenomenon can be described as a 'faster-than-light influence' of one photon upon
its twin. Because of the intrinsic randomness of quantum phenomena, however, one
cannot control whether a given photon tunnels or not, nor can one control whether
a given photon is transmitted or not at the final beam splitter. Hence it is
impossible to send true signals in faster-than-light communications. "I refer interested readers to our paper 'Tachyonlike Excitations in Inverted
Two-Level Media' by R. Y. Chiao, A. E. Kozhekin, and G. Kurizki, , Vol. 77, page 1254; 1996, and references therein. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.