Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue An editorially independent special report on research into fundamental scientific mysteries, produced with support from "We are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars," Oscar Wilde wrote. Ever since an early human sat by the glowing embers of a fire on a winter night, as others fell asleep and the camp quietened, we have pondered the mysteries of existence. What are those points of light studding the sky? What are these movements within my belly? Where did this life come from? What is life? How do I protect this being from all harm? Such questions have occupied not only ordinary humans through the ages but also philosophers and, later, scientists. In recent centuries we have learned so much--and such marvelous things--about the worlds around and within us that it may sometimes seem that no nook is left unexplored, no miracles left for us to unravel. The truth is, though, that every new discovery leads us to ever deeper questions. We know what the stars are, but their motion defies explanation. We can look into the farthest crannies of the universe, but the more we see, the more we suspect that we may never, truly, understand it all. We have a good idea of how the body works, but the mind remains elusive. We know what life is but not where that first spark came from. We can observe unimaginably minute objects, but the more we try to control them, the more they seem to evade our grasp. This special report on "The Biggest Questions in Science," which is being published in both and , is sponsored by the Kavli Prize. It was produced independently by and editors, who have sole responsibility for all the editorial content. Beyond the choice to sponsor this particular topic, the Kavli Prize had no input about the content of the articles in this package. by George Musser   by Lisa Randall   by Christof Koch   by Jack Szostak   by Neil Savage   by Marcelo Gleiser  This article was originally published with the title "Looking at the Stars" in Scientific American  318, 6, 54 (June 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0618-54 Madhusree Mukerjee is 's senior editor for science and society. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.