Read Our Latest Issue With another holiday shopping season upon us, here is a look back at some of the consumer items of the early 20th century that had some gift givers and receivers radiating more than just smiles Every era has its essential consumer products--witness the ubiquity of cell phones and today. In the first half of the 20th century, what gave some gifts their "gotta-have-it" allure is, in retrospect, rather alarming: radioactivity.  Naturally occurring "ionizing" radiation surrounds us, of course, whether it is welling up from the rocks beneath our feet or . But higher exposures to radioactive particles and energy can lead to illness, cancers and even death. Although radiation has proved immeasurably helpful in many applications, such as x-ray medical imaging, an understanding of its risks and how to safely harness its benefits took decades to acquire, and was not without incidents along the way.  "Some people jumped on the bandwagon, thinking [radioactivity] was the neatest thing since sliced bread," says Gary Mansfield, a retired radiation health expert who worked at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in California.  Marie and Pierre Curie's 1898 discovery of the mysterious, glowing element radium set off the commercial bonanza. Some product-makers found seemingly innocuous, legitimate uses for radium, uranium and other energy-emitting materials. Other entrepreneurs--and hucksters--however, exploited the widespread perception that radium had curative properties and used it to "enhance" whatever merchandise they were selling.  Fortunately, "for most products, the dose to the consumer was fairly small and the risk nonexistent," says Paul Frame, a health physicist at Oak Ridge Associated Universities and curator of the . Most, that is, but not all. Check out this slide show to see radioactive gifts and gadgets that warmed the hearts of yesteryear--some that are truly eyebrow-raising, and some that are just anachronistically amusing.   December 25, 2009  --  Adam Hadhazy January 27, 2009  --  David Biello Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.