Read Our Latest Issue Earth-monitoring satellites are being used to track everything from deforestation to the spread of plankton in the Arctic Ocean In September 2007 than at any point since the U.S. government began keeping records of its decline. All told, it covered 502,000 square miles (1.3 million square kilometers) less ocean than even the year before--a loss equal to an area the size of California and Montana combined. But what might be bad news for polar bears and other animals dependent on sea ice could be good news for the alga known as . "Because these plants are , it's not surprising to find that as the amount of sea ice cover declined, the amount of [photosynthesis] increased," says biological oceanographer Kevin Arrigo of Stanford University's School of Earth Sciences, who led an effort to use the MODIS (Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer) devices on NASA's Terra and Aqua satellites to determine changes in growth. "If trends continue, we can expect probably a doubling of primary production," in photosynthetic activity undertaken by , he adds. Because these organisms are the basis of the food chain, that means more food for fish and, ultimately, the animals that feed on fish (as long as they don't depend on sea ice to do it--like polar bears who use the ice as a hunting platform). NASA announced this week that this is but one example of the kinds of environmental monitoring that satellites provide. Scientists are also using orbiters to gather information on the gravitational effects of , to determine the impact of , and to generally assess the on Earth's ecosystems. Among the findings NASA reported: "Over a decade ago, NASA researchers first documented a ," says terrestrial ecology program scientist Diane Wickland of NASA. "We are extending satellite observation records and deriving ever more quantitative information from them." David Biello is a contributing editor at . Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.