Read Our Latest Issue "The 1930s drought was the major climatic event in the nations history," explains lead study author Siegfried Schubert of the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center. "Just beginning to understand what occurred is really critical to understanding future droughts and the links to global climate change issues were experiencing today." Previous research had demonstrated a link between some droughts and peculiar patterns of sea surface temperatures in different parts of the world. Schubert and his colleagues used a computer climate model to analyze conditions during the past 100 years. They found that ocean temperatures, particularly in the tropics, heavily influenced the dry conditions experienced in North America. In the early 1930s, the waters of the tropical Pacific were cooler than normal, and those of the tropical Atlantic were warmer than normal. Those conditions, the scientists say, weakened the jet stream, a strip of fast-moving air that typically flows westward over the Gulf of Mexico before turning northward and depositing rain onto the Great Plains. In its altered state, the jet stream traveled farther south than usual, lessening precipitation over the central U.S. and compounding the drought conditions. Other droughts that struck the U.S. also correspond to cooler tropical Pacific temperatures, the researchers report, but only the so-called Dust Bowl drought combined these condition with a warmer Atlantic Ocean. A better understanding of the conditions that caused severe climatic events of the past should help scientists better recognize and forecast potentially dangerous conditions in the future. June 28, 2001  --  Sarah Graham March 17, 2003  --  Sarah Graham June 9, 2003  --  Otto Pohl Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.