Read Our Latest Issue Google, Microsoft and other providers of Web-based services for managing health care information promise to keep it secure, but privacy policies vary from site to site The push toward electronic medical records has made storing personal health information in a locked filing cabinet in your doctor's office an outmoded guarantee of confidentiality. Today, patients can gather their jumbled health information--hospital visits, drug prescriptions and health insurance plans--and manage them through a number of different online services, including , and AOL co-founder Steve Case's .  Privacy advocates, however, point out that even though these companies are storing sensitive medical information, they are not bound by the strict data sharing and protection laws that govern the health care industry. The 1996 (HIPAA) regulates how health care entities, such as insurance companies and hospitals, exchange an individual's health information, but the law does not apply to personal health record storage services, according to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  Because there are no laws that directly protect a user's online health information, all of the vendors who sell weight scales and/or blood glucose and pressure monitors that can send data directly to services like HealthVault set their own privacy policies, which means some will be weaker than others. "There isn't anyone to regulate the security and privacy of the personal health information records," says Deven McGraw, director of the Health Privacy Project at the , a nonprofit Washington, D.C.-based public advocacy group that focuses on the impact of technology on individual rights. "It is not a very good landscape for consumers in regards to very sensitive health information." Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.