Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A molecular biologist explains how the kits function, and why the U.S. has faced problems Currently there are two main reasons someone would be tested for the coronavirus: having symptoms or exposure to an infected person. The main symptoms of COVID-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, are . These look a lot like the flu and the common cold, so it takes a physician to determine if testing for the virus is necessary. Initially, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommended testing only people with symptoms and who had potentially been exposed to the virus. But to the surprise of public health officials, several of the first people in the U.S. who tested positive for the virus had no obvious exposure. This development suggested that the virus was being transmitted locally, meaning it was spreading from person to person easily and/or that people may have been transmitting the virus without experiencing serious symptoms. In response, on March 4 the CDC changed its recommendations to allow as long as a doctor approved the request. Since the number of available tests is limited, the CDC is encouraging physicians to before ordering tests. As of writing this, there are no specific treatments available for COVID-19, but that does not mean testing is pointless. Perhaps most importantly, testing is done so that infected patients can be quarantined and the spread of the virus slowed. Another benefit of testing is that it lets public health workers build a and how the virus is spreading in the population. For a patient, the process of being tested for the virus is easy and can potentially be . It typically involves taking a swab from deep in a patient's nasal cavity to . The sample is then sent to a lab, where it will be tested to determine if the patient's cells are infected with the virus. The same process is used to . While collecting a sample is easy, actually determining whether a person is infected with the coronavirus is much more complicated. The current method looks for the virus's genetic material (RNA) in a patient's cells. In order to detect the presence of RNA in the patient's sample, labs perform a . This method first converts any viral RNA to DNA. Then the DNA is replicated millions of times until there are enough copies to detect using a specialized piece of equipment called a quantitative PCR instrument. If genetic material from the virus is found in the sample, then the patient is infected with the virus. It takes . During the early ramp-up of testing, there were some concerns about after one study found 3% of tests in China came back negative when the samples were actually positive. But this type of genetic test is --and the benefits of testing outweigh the risk of an error. The availability of tests has been a big issue. Prior to Feb. 29, the CDC was the . However, as the number of suspected cases climbed and doctors approved more people for testing, demand to be tested soared. The test for the coronavirus . Faulty and slow development of test kits and the initial requirement that all tests be processed at the CDC contributed to the . As pressure on the federal government to make tests available increased, the FDA announced a new policy on Feb. 29 that made it easier for commercial and academic laboratories to and allowed other certified labs to test patient samples. Integrated DNA Technologies, a CDC contractor, shipped 700,000 tests to commercial, academic and health care laboratories on March 6. Quest Diagnostics and LabCorp, two large commercial test manufacturers, started making their own test kits, which became . Many companies, hospitals and other institutions are now racing to . On March 10, Alex Azar, secretary of Health and Human Services, announced that 2.1 million testing kits are now available and to certified labs for testing.  . Realistically, it isn't feasible to test everyone who is sick in the U.S. Therefore, most health officials believe it is important : those at high risk such as health care workers who have been in contact with COVID-19 patients; symptomatic people in areas with high infection rates; and people 65 years of age and older with chronic health issues, such as heart disease, lung disease or diabetes. As more tests become available, it will be possible to test more people. There's also a need to develop faster tests that do not require special equipment and personnel. Testing allows experts to better understand how the outbreak is progressing and try to predict the impact the virus will have on society. As with all outbreaks, this pandemic will end. In the meantime, however, people need to wash their hands and try to minimize their risk of exposure. There is much to be learned about this novel coronavirus. Only time will tell if it disappears from the human population, as SARS did in 2004, or . Associate Professor of Biology, Rochester Institute of Technology. June 1, 2020  --  Jane Qiu March 11, 2020  --  Jen Monnier March 11, 2020  --  Helen Branswell, Andrew Joseph and STAT March 3, 2020  --  Sharon Begley and STAT Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.