Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world Europe's most restless volcano, Mount Etna, is slowly sliding into the sea under its own weight. If part of it collapses suddenly, researchers say it could trigger megatsunamis in the Mediterranean Sea. The construction of a hydro electric dam and power plant in North Sumatra's Batang Toru forest caused orangutans from an endangered, newly described species to flee the project site. The government has sent guards to monitor the apes, which have built their nests on local plantations. A court of appeals in The Hague has ruled that the Dutch government needs to take action to help stop climate change. The ruling states that the country must reduce greenhouse gas emissions to at least 25 percent below 1990 levels by 2020. The world's oldest intact shipwreck was discovered at the bottom of the Black Sea, off the coast of Bulgaria. Radiocarbon analysis suggests the wood vessel dates back to 400 B.C. An astronaut and a cosmonaut escaped a Russian spacecraft that experienced a launch failure shortly after takeoff. Nick Hague and Alexey Ovchinin landed safely after their capsule made an emergency separation from the rocket. Health authorities detected the first polio outbreak in Papua New Guinea in 18 years. The three cases were identified in Morobe Province, where sanitation is limited and vaccine coverage is low. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  320, 1, 18 (January 2019) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0119-18a 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.