Read Our Latest Issue "The answer hinges on the fact that spicy foods excite the
receptors in the skin that normally respond to heat. Those
receptors are pain fibers, technically known as polymodal nociceptors.
They respond to temperature extremes and to intense mechanical
stimulation, such as pinching and cutting; they also respond to
certain chemical influences. The central nervous system can be
confused or fooled when these pain fibers are stimulated by a
chemical, like that in chile
peppers, which triggers an ambiguous neural response. "So how does the brain decide whether the mouth is being
pinched, cut, burned or affected by chemical? Scientists are not
certain how the process works, but probably the brain makes a
judgment based on the type and variety of stimuli being
received. Stimulus to the nociceptors alone might indicate
dangerous, extreme temperature. But capsaicin,
the active ingredient in chile peppers, also stimulates the
nerves that respond only to mild increases in temperature--the
ones that give the sensation of moderate warmth. So capsaicin
sends two messages to the brain: 'I am an intense stimulus,' and
'I am warmth.' Together these stimuli define the sensation of a
burn, rather than a pinch or cut. "The central nervous system reacts to whatever the sensory
system tells it is going on. Therefore, the pattern of activity
from pain and warm nerve fibers triggers both the sensations and
the physical reactions of heat, including vasodilation, sweating
and flushing. "Most people think of the 'burn' of spicy food as a form of
taste. In fact, the two sensory experiences are related but are
very distinct. They innervate the tongue the same way, but the
pain system that is triggered by capsaicin is everywhere on the
body, so one can get thermal effects everywhere. Some liniments
contain compounds that produce similar temperature stimuli to
the nerves in the skin. Menthol acts in much the same way as
capsaicin, but in this case, it stimulates the fibers that
register cold temperatures, not those that respond to warmth.
This is why products containing menthol have names like 'Icy
Hot'--menthol stimulates both the hot (pain) and cold receptors,
sending the brain a really ambiguous signal. That difference
explains why there is no confusing menthol and capsaicin: one
gives rise to a cool burn, the other to a hot burn. "The sensations produced by menthol and capsaicin are accidents
of human physiology--we obviously did not evolve receptors to
react to these compounds. The chemicals fool pain receptors
whose real purpose is to register critical events, like damage
to the skin and the inflamation that often results. The
tenderness around an injury is caused in part by the response of
these same nerves to chemicals released in the skin. We humans
are peculiar creatures--we've taken a nerve response that
normally signals danger and turned it into something
pleasurable." 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.