Read Our Latest Issue This is the ninth article in the series on the neuroscience behind visual illusions Our brains are exquisitely tuned to perceive, recognize and remember faces. We can easily find a friend's face among dozens or hundreds of unfamiliar faces in a busy street. We look at each other's facial expressions for signs of appreciation and disapproval, love and contempt. We carefully select the images to go with our Facebook profiles. And even after we have corresponded or spoken on the phone with somebody for a long time, we are often relieved when we meet him or her in person and are able to put "a face to the name." The neurons responsible for our refined "face sense" lie in a brain region called the fusiform gyrus. Lesions or trauma to this brain area result in a rare neurological condition called prosopagnosia, or face blindness. Prosopagnostics fail to identify celebrities, close relatives, and even themselves in the mirror. But even those of us with normal face recognition skills are subject to many illusions and biases in face perception. This month's focuses on face illusions and their neural bases. Susana Martinez-Conde is a professor of opthalmology, neurology, and physiology and pharmacology at SUNY Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn, N.Y. She is author of the Prisma Prize-winning , along with Stephen L. Macknik and Sandra Blakeslee. Their forthcoming book, , will be published by Scientific American/Farrar, Straus and Giroux. Credit: Sean McCabe Stephen L. Macknik is a professor of opthalmology, neurology, and physiology and pharmacology at SUNY Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn, N.Y. Along with Susana Martinez-Conde and Sandra Blakeslee, he is author of the Prisma Prize-winning . Their forthcoming book, , will be published by Scientific American/Farrar, Straus and Giroux. Credit: Sean McCabe October 6, 2009  --  Susana Martinez-Conde and Stephen L. Macknik Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.