Read Our Latest Issue The spy agency pushed the federal technology standard-bearer NIST to include a flawed, little used algorithm in a 2006 cryptography standard In the three months since Edward Snowden began his against the National Security Agency (NSA) the former government contractor has exposed the agency's and attempts to circumvent . The latest allegations indicate the NSA manipulated and weakened a cryptography standard the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) had issued several years ago. As a result, from using that cryptographic approach and promised to give the public an opportunity to weigh in on a revised standard. The fix may not be all that difficult--the tainted part of the standard is a highly inefficient algorithm that security experts identified as a problem long ago. In fact, the biggest mystery, those experts say, is why the NSA thought any company or government agency would willingly use that particular algorithm to protect their data. "It certainly wasn't inserted into the standard with the intention of making an efficient algorithm available to the community," says , chief scientist of computer storage provider EMC's RSA security division. The cryptography standard includes four different algorithms--called "deterministic random bit generators," or DRBGs--for encoding data. The algorithm included at the NSA's behest--Dual Elliptic Curve Deterministic Random Bit Generation, or --is vulnerable to tampering and could allow the agency to build in a so-called backdoor it could use to determine the values that the algorithm generated, essentially neutering its effectiveness to keep information secret, according to documents Snowden leaked to the , and ProPublica. The NSA orchestrated essentially a "kleptographic" attack on anyone entrusting their data to the Dual_EC_DRBG algorithm, which would intentionally leak data through a cryptographic backdoor, Juels says. "Security analysts and programmers have been writing and testing kleptographic systems since 1996, but you would be hard-pressed to find one in actual use, until now," he adds. is to develop standards and guidelines to protect federal information and data systems, and industry often follows its recommendations for its own technology. "Reopening the discussion over this standard is likely a face-saving move for NIST," Juels says. "They presumably could have just jettisoned this algorithm, but that might have looked worse than soliciting public input." Computer scientists for years suspected that such a backdoor existed in Dual_EC_DRBG. Security researchers from Eindhoven University of Technology in the Netherlands noted in May 2006 that and that an attack against it was easy enough to launch on "an ordinary PC". The following year two Microsoft engineers flagged Dual_EC_DRBG as potentially containing a backdoor , although they stopped short of accusing NIST and the NSA of inserting it there intentionally. NIST denies , pointing out on its Web site that the agency is "required by statute" to consult with the NSA and stating, "NIST would not deliberately weaken a cryptographic standard."* Yet that is exactly what appears to have happened. Documents provided by Snowden show the spy agency played a crucial role in writing the standard that NIST is now cautioning against using, the . NIST published the cryptography standard in 2006, and the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) later adopted it for its 163 member countries. Despite Dual_EC_DRBG's known flaws, prominent tech companies including Microsoft, Cisco, Symantec and RSA primarily because they need it to be eligible for government contracts, cryptographer says. It is up to the private sector companies that buy these products to decide whether to enable the algorithm, something they are unlikely to do in the case of Dual_EC_DRBG, according to RSA's Juels. Snowden's latest revelations may leave NIST and the NSA somewhat red-faced, but they do not damage cryptography's credibility overall as a security measure, says , founder, president and chief scientist of Cryptography Research, a designer of data, computer and network security systems. Efforts to use a backdoor as a means of defeating cryptography indicate the basic technology is still formidable. "There's really nothing that impacts the fundamental mathematics underpinning encryption here," he adds. Buggy software and flawed operating systems still pose a far greater threat to data security and Internet privacy. The real issue is the government's credibility. "This sort of a thing is a big deal from a political perspective," Kocher says. "You expect that the government will produce security standards with pure intent. When that line's crossed, even if it's not in a widely used program, that's obviously troubling." * Scientific American Larry Greenemeier is the associate editor of technology for , covering a variety of tech-related topics, including biotech, computers, military tech, nanotech and robots. Credit: Nick Higgins July 15, 2013  --  Larry Greenemeier November 20, 2009  --  Larry Greenemeier    May 13, 2010  --  Sandra A. Swanson Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.