Photographers and TikTokers can use the method to show how a narrow strip records something different in a series of sequential images Leslie Nemo was formerly an editorial intern for . Leslie Nemo was formerly an editorial intern for . The trippy twist stretching across your screen is a doctored flower--though you won't see this creation at a wedding reception anytime soon. Each spiral is a product of an editing technique called slit-scan photography. In this documentation method, a photographer takes a video or string of back-to-back images as a scene rushes by. Then they cut a narrow strip out of the same place in each photograph or filmed scene and stack the slits in sequential order. The collage shows how a specific, narrow focal point recorded something different in each successive image. Since its early days of helping to determine which horse crossed a finish line first, the technique has evolved to include applications such as documenting all the objects that roll down a high-speed factory conveyor belt (line scan cameras) and creating a distorted selfie using the Time Warp Scan filter in TikTok. In these examples, photographers Ted Kinsman and David Parker traded running horses for video stills of a spinning flower. When horizontal slices of each flower image, captured as the flower spun stem-side down, were assembled and turned sideways, the composite resembled a twirly rope. "I personally find these images new and exciting to make," Kinsman wrote in a post at the Rochester Institute of Technology's Photography Blog in 2017. "Even after making these images for 20 years, ." Magnolia blossom created this raspberry ripple photograph. Magnolias are considered some of the --so old that they evolved before pollinators such as bees and butterflies and instead rely on beetles and flies to spread their pollen. Native to Mexico and the surrounding area, the dahlia plant is known internationally for its pretty blossoms. The plant's blooms and underground tubers can steal the show on dinner plates, too, with the latter component having a long history in the . These more somber hues belong to lilac flowers. The delicate blooms cover shrubs or trees, depending on the variety. And the common lilac shrub can . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Sign up for 's free newsletters. Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.