Read Our Latest Issue Some early public health messages about COVID-19 have been overturned We're in a terrifying and confusing pandemic, with new and sometimes conflicting information about COVID-19 emerging all the time. In the early days, a lot of public health advice was based on what we knew about previous disease outbreaks. But this new coronavirus behaves in unexpected ways, and it's hard to keep up. What's more, people tend to remember the , a phenomenon called "anchoring bias," and it's psychologically challenging to replace old information with new knowledge. Here are nine of the most important things we've learned about SARS-CoV-2 in the past seven months and why we didn't fully understand or appreciate them at first. There was a lot of wishful thinking and othering (as in: it's those other people's problem) in the first months of the pandemic: Chinese people got it because of . Italian people got it because they greet each other with . People on cruise ships got it because of the . People in nursing homes got it because they are frail. People in New York got it because the city is crowded. Now we know that outbreaks can happen in urban areas, rural areas, suburbs and any culture around the world. The first victims of the pandemic were . Age and frailty are still risk factors for serious disease and death, but we now know the disease can kill young and healthy people. It can kill young adults. It can kill teenagers. It can kill children. Early on, public health experts advised people to wash their hands frequently (while singing "Happy Birthday" twice), disinfect surfaces and . This was based on studies of how other diseases spread, such as norovirus and . It's still a good idea to wash your hands regularly (and ), but now we know that . At first, experts thought the virus was spread primarily through globs of mucus and saliva expelled when people cough or sneeze. They thought these droplets were heavy enough to drop out of the air fairly quickly. Based on early cases of hospital spread, the virus seemed to be aerosolized--that is, lofted into the air in particles small enough to float--only by certain medical procedures such as placing someone on a ventilator. But we now know that the , with some particles small enough to persist in the air, especially in indoor, poorly ventilated spaces. Other respiratory diseases make people cough and sneeze. The original SARS outbreak made people so sick, so quickly, that most of them . Temperature checks and telling sick people to stay home can stop symptomatic diseases from spreading, and in the first months of the pandemic, many countries started to detect these cases. But the biggest challenge for stopping SARS-CoV-2 is that many spread the disease without symptoms or before symptoms start, simply through . . is a that peaks in the winter, and some experts hoped the spread of COVID-19 would show a similar pattern and slow in the Northern Hemisphere during the spring and summer. Now we know that people's behavior, regardless of season, is the strongest predictor of whether the disease will spread. When the pandemic began, experts worried that mass mask-buying could exacerbate shortages of personal protective equipment for health care workers and others who needed them. They also warned that masks might make people and that cloth or paper masks (unlike ) can't stop the smallest aerosolized viral particles. Now we know that masks can greatly reduce the amount of virus that people expel into the air while speaking, and that who are wearing them--not perfectly, but enough to reduce transmission of the disease. The pandemic should put an end to the common misconception that race, a social construct, is a biological explanation for health disparities. in the United States. This is but because of systemic racism that has and made Black and Latinx people more likely to have "essential" jobs that expose them to infection, a greater burden of stress and less access to high-quality health care. The president of the United States, other politicians, , and members of the right-wing media, to their everlasting shame, have used the pandemic to stoke racism, spread misinformation and amplify conspiracy theories. Their followers have threatened ; refused to wear masks; refused to cooperate with ; and rejected proven basic public health advice about social distancing. Representative Louie Gohmert, who refused to wear a mask in the Capitol and reportedly discouraged from wearing masks, and is being , a drug that Trump has endorsed but that has . Trump supporter on July 30, weeks after attending a rally in Tulsa without a mask. Calls to after Trump speculated that injecting or ingesting disinfectants could protect against the coronavirus. Early evidence suggests people who watched , . The most important public health measure during a pandemic of a disease with no cure or vaccine--as many countries around the world that have controlled the virus have shown--is to help experts based on the best evidence. Spreading lies has spread this disease. Laura Helmuth is editor in chief of . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.