Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor on the snow line and dark energy In " ," Frank N. von Hippel describes why he would like nuclear reprocessing to go away, but it won't. Nuclear power is resurging, both globally and domestically. Continuing to discard as "waste" 99 percent of the energy in uranium ore is clearly unsustainable. The technology is spreading inexorably, increasing its potential to be subverted for weapons production. To minimize that risk, fuel processing must be done under international auspices--with ironclad guarantees that nations will have uninterrupted access to fuel if they forgo their own enrichment and reprocessing facilities. Von Hippel is correct that using MOX (plutonium oxide mixed with uranium oxide) to cycle plutonium back into today's "thermal" reactors is expensive, is only marginally useful and produces plutonium of weapons-quality chemical purity. But recycling methods for advanced fast reactors are different. Such methods address resource utilization, waste and proliferation concerns (see our piece, " ," in the December 2005 Scientific American). Technology alone cannot remove the proliferation threat. The U.S. Department of Energy's Global Nuclear Energy Partnership (GNEP) is a useful step toward sensible management, and some 21 nations have signed on so far. But without continued U.S. leadership, the GNEP will fade away. Coordination will be lost, and the technology for producing nuclear weapons materials will spread uncontrolled. --William H. Hannum, Gerald E. Marsh and George S. Stanford Argonne National Laboratory (retired) VON HIPPEL REPLIES: " ," by Douglas N. C. Lin, describes how, in the leading planet formation theory, planets form within a disk of gas rotating around a star. At a certain distance from the star is a "snow line" beyond which water stays frozen. I wonder about the stability of the snow line. It seems that it should move as the disk progresses. Could this be why Earth has an ocean? --Tom Brown Gainesville, Fla. LIN REPLIES: David Appell errs in attributing the discovery of dark energy so completely to Saul Perlmutter's Supernova Cosmology Project (SCP) team in " " [Insights]. The SCP made real contributions to the discovery of dark energy, but other groups had solved some of these problems earlier. In 1988 a Danish team searched for distant supernovae using methods anticipating those of the SCP. And the program of supernova discovery for nearby objects at Cerro Tololo Inter-American Observatory in Chile formed the basis for using supernovae as distance indicators, not the robotic search Perlmutter worked on. The SCP did publish a result in July 1997 that claimed supernova observations were unlikely to be consistent with dark energy, but our HighZ Supernova Search Team developed superior methods for dealing with dust, published in 1996. With careful observation of supernovae, we were confident that we saw cosmic acceleration, which we announced in February 1998. A paper detailing our work was submitted to the in March 1998 and appeared in print before the SCP paper was submitted. Everybody has a lot to be proud of, but credit should be given where it is due. --Robert P. Kirshner Harvard University APPELL REPlIES: This article was originally published with the title "Nuclear Recycling Snow Line Dark Energy" in Scientific American  299, 3, 10-12 (September 2008) 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.