Read Our Latest Issue DARPA wants to see a robotic workhorse navigate treacherous terrain on its own by the end of the year, in preparation for possible deployment to Afghanistan or Iraq NASA has robots that can wheel around on the , hundreds of millions of miles away, meanwhile mine rescue workers deploy models that climb through caverns this planet's surface. The U.S. military, however, is looking for electromechanical companionship that's a bit more practical, if much more difficult to deliver: a four-legged robot that can walk alongside troops, carrying supplies across any terrain without help, and all without toppling over.  With large deployments across the craggy landscapes of Iraq and Afghanistan (and no sign of them being withdrawn soon), the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) is hoping to have a version of its , an autonomous robot being developed by , by the end of the year.   spare the military from having to build roads and can travel across rugged areas just like pack mules, says Robert Mandelbaum, a program manager in DARPA's Information Processing Techniques and Tactical Technology offices who is in charge of the agency's biorobotics program, which includes BigDog. "Some of the wars that we're engaged in now happen to have that kind of terrain," he notes.  Powered by a gasoline engine that drives a hydraulic actuation system (which uses fluids and pressure to move the robot's legs), BigDog is a 3.3- by 2.3-foot (one- by 0.7-meter), 165-pound (75-kilogram) robot that relies on four legs designed like those of a quadrupedal animal. Its design allows it to absorb shock and recycle energy from one step to the next. The robot, which at times resembles two people walking while carrying an overturned raft over their heads, has an onboard computer that controls locomotion and small servo motors that manage the position of the legs using data they receive from a variety of sensors. Those sensors tell the device where its joints are and what they are doing, where it is in contact with the ground, and also allow for stereo vision. The robot also has a gyroscope that uses a laser to precisely measure changes in its orientation. Other sensors monitor its hydraulic pressure, oil temperature, engine temperature, rpm (revolutions per minute) and battery charge. "BigDog has a fantastic control mechanism to not only balance but move on some pretty rugged terrain," says Sanjiv Singh, a research professor with Carnegie Mellon University's Robotics Institute who in 2005 and 2006 worked with Boston Dynamics to develop BigDog's computer vision system.   Work on BigDog began in 2002 as part of DARPA's biorobotics program, which launched that same year and was at the time called "biodynotics" (for biologically inspired multifunctional dynamic robotics). "The idea is to look to nature and the way nature has solved different robotics problems," Mandelbaum says. In 2005 the agency funded the development of a "mini-me" version of BigDog called , a smaller, autonomous quadruped robot that measures 11.8 by 7.1 inches (30 by 18 centimeters), stands 5.5 inches (14 centimeters) and weighs 4.9 pounds (2.2 kilograms). LittleDog is part of the agency's to develop learning algorithms that help robots operate in unfamiliar environments. In addition to their size difference, the robots differ in that BigDog ambles along as if it were blind, whereas LittleDog is programmed to recognize its surrounding terrain. (For more on LittleDog, read " .")  BigDog is now in its third phase of development, which will last through the end of 2008. Boston Dynamics is trying to demonstrate to DARPA that the robot can carry military payloads across a terrain that mimics a five-mile (eight-kilometer) trail at the , Va. This trail features holes in the ground, steep inclines and other hazards, and a successful crossing--while loaded with an assortment of equipment typically carried by Marines--will prove to the military that the robot is on the right track. Mandelbaum expects to see a demonstration of BigDog's progress (and the value of his agency's $24-million investment in the technology so far) in these areas by September.  BigDog has become something of a celebrity online thanks to several videos available on as well as . It even of two people in black leggings pretending to be the robot. "BigDog has such a realistic-looking gait, you can't tell it's not BigDog at first," Singh says. "You know that you have something big when someone takes so much effort to spoof a robot." Larry Greenemeier is the associate editor of technology for , covering a variety of tech-related topics, including biotech, computers, military tech, nanotech and robots. Credit: Nick Higgins September 26, 2007  --  Larry Greenemeier July 18, 2007  --  Sourish Basu April 27, 2007  --  Christopher Mims January 1, 2007  --  Bill Gates January 15, 2008  --  Larry Greenemeier September 6, 2007  --  Larry Greenemeier Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.