Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Landmark UN-backed report finds that agriculture is one of the biggest threats to Earth's ecosystems Up to one million plant and animal species face extinction, many within decades, because of human activities, says the most comprehensive report yet on the state of global ecosystems. Without drastic action to conserve habitats, the rate of species extinctions--already tens to hundreds of times higher than the average across the last ten million years--will only increase, says the analysis by a United Nations-backed panel, the . The report also finds that agricultural activities have had the largest impacts on ecosystems that people depend on for food, clean water and a stable climate. The is as much a danger to life on Earth as climate change, says a summary of the report released on 6 May. The analysis distills findings from nearly 15,000 studies and government reports, integrating information from the natural and social sciences, Indigenous peoples and traditional agricultural communities. It is the first major international appraisal of biodiversity since 2005. Representatives of 132 governments met last week in Paris to finalize and approve the analysis. Biodiversity should be at the top of the global agenda alongside climate, said Anne Larigauderie, IPBES executive secretary, in a 6 May press conference in Paris, France. "We can no longer say that we did not know," she said. "We have never had a single unified statement from the world's governments that unambiguously makes clear the crisis we are facing for life on Earth," says Thomas Brooks, chief scientist at the International Union for Conservation of Nature in Gland, Switzerland, who helped to edit the biodiversity analysis. "That is really the absolutely key novelty that we see here." Without "transformative changes" to the world's economic, social and political systems to address this crisis, the IPBES panel projects that major biodiversity losses will continue to 2050 and beyond. "We are eroding the very foundations of our economies, livelihoods, food security, health and quality of life worldwide," says IPBES chair Robert Watson, an atmospheric chemist at the University of East Anglia, UK. About 75% of the planet's land and 66% of its ocean areas have been "significantly altered" by people, driven in large part by the production of food, according to the IPBES report, which will be released in full later this year. Crop and livestock operations currently co-opt more than 33% of Earth's land surface and 75% of its freshwater resources. Agricultural activities are also some of the . They account for roughly 25% of total emissions due to the use of fertilizers and the conversion of areas such as tropical forests to grow crops or raise livestock such as cattle. Agricultural threats to ecosystems will only increase as the world's population continues to grow, according to the IPBES analysis. The next biggest threats to nature are the exploitation of plants and animals through harvesting, logging, hunting and fishing; climate change; pollution and the . The IPBES report finds that the average abundance of native plants, animals and insects has fallen by at least 20% since 1900 because of invasive species. The report draws inextricable links between biodiversity loss and climate change. An estimated 5% of the planet's species would be threatened with extinction by 2 degC of warming above preindustrial levels--a threshold that the world could breach in the next few decades unless . Earth could lose 16% of its species if the average global temperature exceeds 4.3 degC. These losses would undermine global efforts to reduce poverty and hunger and promote more sustainable development, the IPBES report says. Scientists may quibble about some of the extinction estimates and other details, but the report doesn't pull punches when it describes how humans have altered Earth's ecosystems, says Stuart Pimm, an ecologist at Duke University in Durham, North Carolina. The world can reverse this biodiversity crisis, the report says, but doing so will require proactive environmental policies, the sustainable production of food and other resources and a concerted effort to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions. The IPBES report is solid on the science, but the panel should do more when it comes to outlining practical solutions for governments, businesses and communities, says Peter Bridgewater, an ecologist at the University of Canberra who led a separate analysis--released on 29 April--of the effectiveness of the biodiversity panel. That report, commissioned by IPBES, recommended that the body develop partnerships with governments and communities, and assess policies that can be implemented at local and national levels. Despite those shortcomings, the IPBES report will help to set the agenda when governments negotiate new conservation goals for the next decade at the UN Convention on Biodiversity next year, says Brooks. "Then we will need to see implementation across all sectors of society," he says. "That's when we will see a difference." Jeff Tollefson works for magazine. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.