Read Our Latest Issue An eye-catching science project from Science Buddies The human eye Peripheral vision Central vision Do you only think of your peripheral (side) vision--peripherally? This side vision is actually useful for many daily activities, including riding a bike, reading or playing basketball. You might not even realize when you are using it. But our survival once depended on the quick response of our peripheral vision. A detailed picture, created by our central vision, is only useful in situations where time allows us to focus on the details. But our side vision can help us avoid dangers quickly. In this activity you will find out how specialized our peripheral view is. When you look at something, you use central vision to focus on the details--and peripheral vision to gather information about the surroundings. The differences between central and peripheral vision start at the backs of our eyes where we have two types of light-sensitive cells, called cones and rods. Our central vision uses an area densely packed with cones. Cones are sensitive to color and need ample light to function well. Our peripheral vision uses mostly rods and almost no cones. Rods are sensitive to movement and quickly pick up changes in brightness. They function well in a broad range of light conditions. The differences continue as signals travel to the brain. Some signaling cells are sensitive to color but not so much to contrast whereas other cells signal faster and respond to low-contrast stimuli. In the brain's vision center (known as the visual cortex) more neurons will analyze a stimulus picked up by our central vision compared with the same stimulus picked up by our peripheral vision. All of this leads to our color-sensitive, high-resolution central vision and our fast-working, movement-sensitive peripheral vision. With all this information on our visual system, will you be able to predict what your side vision will perceive? Try this activity to find out! You probably quickly observed something appearing in your side view but perhaps you could only later tell the color, and after that identify the shape. Our peripheral vision is quick at detecting that something enters our field of sight but it is weak at distinguishing color, shape or detail. This is because fewer and different cells in our eyes and brains are activated when seeing an object with our peripheral vision than when "seeing" the object with our central vision. Our peripheral vision has evolved to serve us well. It is very good at picking up objects and movement in dim as well as bright light, which allows us to escape from an approaching danger quickly. This explains the results of some of the extra instructions: in dim light you still can quickly detect an object with your peripheral vision, and you notice it even faster when the object wiggles. Our ancestors did not need details to identify the type of danger instantly. To see color, shape and details, they could wait until ample light was available and use their central vision to study a relatively still object.  , from Neuroscience for Kids  , from  , from Science Buddies 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.