Read Our Latest Issue Balance could tip on endangered species, clean water and climate change, legal experts warn Associate Justice Anthony Kennedy's retirement from the U.S. Supreme Court has set off a political firestorm over his replacement, opening the door to new debate about the most volatile social issues--from abortion and guns to voting rights and same-sex marriage. Add at least one more lightning rod issue to the list: the environment. Pres. Donald Trump has already said he That means several marquee environmental laws could be reshaped or upended, according to legal scholars. These include measures to safeguard wildlife, combat climate change and determine which waterways are federally protected. This fall the new Court will get its first chance to hear a science-heavy environmental conflict with protections under the Endangered Species Act (ESA).. Kennedy, known as the Court's swing vote, has a mixed record on environmental cases. But for decades he played a central role in deciding them, including a landmark climate change decision in which he provided the tie-breaking vote finding the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency could regulate greenhouse gases. A nearly extinct frog is at the center of a case that could determine the extent to which the federal government can designate private land as a critical habitat to protect an endangered species. The dusky gopher frog ( ), , requires a specific habitat to survive. Federal officials had established new breeding populations in Mississippi, but the frog species had apparently been eradicated from southeastern Louisiana and parts of Alabama, where it had historically been found. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service has identified 1,500 forested acres in Louisiana as a candidate for a protected area to establish a new dusky gopher frog population, even though the frogs do not currently live there. T "Any biologist would tell you that is a crazy definition if you're trying to protect aquatic life," says "The ruling really led to the obligation of the EPA having to look the science in the eye," says has already been damage done to ," but "I don't know what some of these justices think in their heart of hearts about scientific evidence, but I do know they have been willing to cast scientific evidence aside in their service of a deregulatory agenda," Heinzerling adds, referring to the four justices who voted against the EPA having the authority to regulate greenhouse gases in the landmark 2007 case "They are willing to ignore science or skew their view of legal principles to comport with their own political worldview." June 26, 2018  --  Sara Reardon and Nature magazine February 8, 2017  --  John Echeverria November 27, 2017  --  Robin Bravender, Scott Waldman and ClimateWire June 27, 2018  --  Niina Heikkinen and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.