Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue are expected to remain, well, constant, but physicists now find that the masses of protons or electrons might have varied over time. Researchers at the Free University of Amsterdam and their colleagues investigated the wavelengths absorbed by hydrogen gas irradiated with extreme ultraviolet laser beams in their laboratory. They compared it with readings taken at the European Southern Observatory in Chile from the glow of hydrogen clouds that had absorbed radiation from distant quasars, light that originated 12 billion years ago. The positions of certain wavelengths in both cases depend on the proton-to-electron mass ratio. Currently protons are roughly 1,836 times the mass of electrons. In the April 21 , the scientists reported that the proton-toelectron mass ratio has apparently decreased by one fifty-thousandth in the interval since the universe's youth. These findings complement recent contentious observations that the fine-structure constant, which describes the overall strength of the electromagnetic force, has increased slightly. This article was originally published with the title "Mass Change" in Scientific American  295, 1, 33 (July 2006) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0706-33b Charles Q. Choi is a frequent contributor to . His work has also appeared in and among others. In his spare time, he has traveled to all seven continents. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.