Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the March 2014 issue of Your editorial, "Free Willy--And All His Pals" [Science Agenda], fails to accurately reflect the facts about elephants and orcas in human care and reaches the wrong conclusion in asserting elephants and orcas that "can be, should be" released. The Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) sets high and rising standards for animal care and welfare, which is especially important for elephants and orcas. AZA's science-based accreditation standards are the best way to make sure large and intelligent animals receive the higher level of care they need. Not surprisingly, the only specific example of poor care you note comes from a non-AZA-accredited facility. There is no solid science to show that captive elephants and whales can or should be released into the wild. For whales and dolphins, the few attempted releases have resulted in suffering and death. A proved solution is to provide these animals with enriching habitats, appropriate social interaction, high-quality veterinary care and nutritious diets--all mandated by AZA standards. AZA-accredited zoos and aquariums are also taking a leading role in fighting illegal elephant poaching and in promoting protection of our marine ecosystems. The animals at these facilities play a key role in educating and inspiring 180 million people to take conservation action. AZA-accredited institutions have spent more than $1 billion on field conservation projects over the past 10 years. AZA and its members have made considerable efforts to advance animal welfare and conserve wildlife, and we invite your readers to take a second look. Kristin L. Vehrs  . In "Why Good Thoughts Block Better Ones," Merim Bilali'c and Peter McLeod present a chess scenario to illustrate how the brain has difficulty looking past a problem's familiar solution to find a better one. In the scenario, player A can win against player B with the well-known five-move "smothered mate" sequence but supposedly can also win more quickly with a three-move sequence. The latter sequence is contrived. B's response to A's second move would not be to move a rook into the path of A's bishop's but would logically be to capture A's queen with a pawn. Andy Prevelig  . . Ricki Lewis's article on gene therapy, "Gene Therapy's Second Act," cites the clinical trial that led to Jesse Gelsinger's death. That is just one story of experiments with unfortunate results that I summarize in my book (Praeger, 2008). I am pleased by Lewis's hopeful conclusion for the new promise of gene therapy. But I suggest that institutions pursuing it should name designated Cassandras, or critics, who might backstop institutional review boards in certain cases of frontier experiments. This would sometimes avoid the trap of "Good Thoughts Blocking Better Ones." Marshall Shapo  "The Case for Banning Trans Fats," by Walter Willett [Forum], omits any mention of a source of trans fats besides partial hydrogenation: heating naturally occurring cis fats during cooking converts them to an equilibrium mixture of the cis and trans isomers, in which the trans isomer is usually favored. The extent of reaction depends on time, temperature and structure. This process has been described for a long time, including in studies by Changmo Li et al. in the last year and by Clayton A. Martin et al. in in 2007. Edward J. Behrman  . In discussing the difficulty of predicting future technology in "Future Imperfect" [TechnoFiles], David Pogue cites the Internet as among the "enormous zigs or zags" that "not even [science-fiction writer Isaac] Asimov saw coming." But Asimov did envision an Internet in the form of a planetwide communications network for robots in his 1957 novel . He used the terms "net" and "web" to denote a possible nefarious tinge to the network: "Perhaps robots listened to all that went on..., and if [a] particular robot was not designed for a particular job ... the radio web that united all robots went into action.... [Elijah] Baley had the vision of Solaria as a robotic net with holes that were small and continually growing smaller." Ed Shaya  In "007 and 7" [Anti Gravity], Steve Mirsky cites a paper as claiming that James Bond had 18 drinks over a single dinner in Ian Fleming's 1959 novel . But I checked the book and counted the following drinks in that scene: one "large vodka and tonic with a slice of lemon peel," a "strong gin and tonic," "another drink," "some" wine "tasted" (no further mention of the wine bottle) and "a bottle of Mouton Rothschild 1947" (no mention as to how much of it he consumed). That's it. Don Smith  . This article was originally published with the title "Letters" in Scientific American  311, 1, 8-9 (July 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0714-8 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.