Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue How to count seabirds on islands using sound One of the most basic field research techniques in bird conservation is counting birds and their nests. Tallying songbirds in a suburban garden is one thing; spotting seabirds is another. Seabirds, which reflect the health of their marine ecosystems, often build their nests in inaccessible areas--wedged into vertical cliffs or on remote islands battered by intense waves. Many lay their eggs in burrows more than a meter deep to protect them from weather. And on top of that, most are nocturnal, making them hard to see even in plain sight. "There is a vast number of shearwater and petrel colonies for which we have absolutely no idea whether there are hundreds of pairs, or thousands, or tens of thousands," says Steffen Oppel of the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds. So Oppel and his colleagues have come up with a new method for monitoring the populations without being able to see them: they listen. Oppel and his team found that they could use audio recordings to estimate a bird's population size after testing the method on a raucous colony of Cory's shearwaters that breeds on a small island in the Azores called Corvo. They describe their findings in the journal . By combining acoustic data from nine microphones placed around Corvo with information about nest density, the researchers developed an algorithm that took terabytes of audio recordings and automatically counted the number of individual calls. They found, as expected, that more nests meant louder recordings and more calls. That correlation enabled them to extrapolate an estimate for the seabird population for the entire island--6,000 breeding pairs--something that in the past has been little more than a simple guess. Even if the estimate is off somewhat, Oppel's method will be useful for detecting increases or decreases in populations over time. From that, scientists can infer the health of the seabirds' food chains as well as observe how rookeries are faring in the face of invasive predators and climate change. This article was originally published with the title "Census for the Birds" in Scientific American  311, 1, 20 (July 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0714-20a Jason G. Goldman is a science journalist based in Los Angeles. He has written about animal behavior, wildlife biology, conservation, and ecology for , magazine, the , the , the BBC, magazine, and elsewhere. He contributes to 's "60-Second Science" podcast, and is co-editor of (Yale University Press). He enjoys sharing his wildlife knowledge on television and on the radio, and often speaks to the public about wildlife and science communication. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.