Read Our Latest Issue A cool science activity from Science Buddies Physics Heat Temperature Insulation How does a cooler keep things cold? Which material makes the best insulation? Try this project to find out how long you can keep an ice cube from melting once it's out of the freezer! Have you used an insulated lunch box or bag to pack lunch for school or a cooler to pack food for a picnic? Why not just throw the food in a paper bag or plain box? What exactly does the cooler do that's so special? You'll find out in this project--but first let's learn a little bit about heat transfer. Heat naturally flows from hot to cold. You can observe this by watching (and feeling) a hot drink. A cup of hot chocolate will eventually cool down and reach room temperature. In this case heat flows from the hot drink to the cooler environment. A cup of cold water will also eventually reach room temperature. In this case heat flows from the warmer environment to the cooler cup. Heat is the vibrations and collisions between the molecules in a substance. There are three different ways heat can move between objects: conduction, convection and radiation. Conduction occurs when objects are in direct contact with one another. You feel conduction when you touch, for example, an ice cube or a hot mug. Convection occurs when a fluid (such as air or water) flows over an object. Convection can be natural (for instance, a hot object, such as a pan on the stove, will warm the air around it, causing this warmer air to rise) or forced (such as by a fan in an air conditioner). You feel convection when you stand outside in a chilly winter wind and feel cold. Finally, heat can be transferred by electromagnetic radiation. Most notably, you can feel this when you stand outside in the sun. You can feel the warmth of the sun on your skin--even though the sun is millions of miles away with the vacuum of space between you and it (so there is no matter that allows for conduction or convection)! That's a lot of different ways for heat to flow from one place to another. That makes keeping food cold (or hot) a challenge. How do you heat transfer if it's happening naturally all the time? Or how can you at least slow it down so your food doesn't spoil? The key is insulation! Thermal insulators are materials that help reduce the rate of heat transfer. Some materials are poor conductors of heat so they make good insulators to slow down heat conduction. Other materials can block radiation in visible or infrared light. In this project you will build your own cooler and explore how insulation can help keep an ice cube from melting (for a while, at least).   When the ice cube in your open container finally melted, you might have discovered that the ice cube in the insulated container was still almost half its original size! Putting the ice cube in a sealed, insulated container dramatically reduces the amount of heat it can gain by conduction (because the insulating material is not a good conductor of heat) and convection (because the lid is sealed extra air cannot flow around the ice cube). If your insulation is opaque, it also reduces the amount of heat transferred by radiation--although this is a much bigger factor outside in the sun than if you're doing the activity indoors. Think about what you learned in this activity and how it relates to real coolers. For example, have you ever seen a transparent cooler? Why would that be less desirable? If you want to keep something cold, is it better to leave the cooler lid open or closed? If you need to keep something cold for a long time, would you use a lightweight, thin-walled cooler or a cooler with thicker walls? How does what you learned in this activity impact how you might pack your lunch or a picnic?  , from Physics4Kids  , from  , from  , from Science Buddies Ben Finio is a senior staff scientist at Science Buddies and a lecturer at the Cornell University Sibley School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Follow him on Twitter @BenFinio. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.