Read Our Latest Issue David W. J. Thompson of Colorado State University and Susan Solomon of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration examined 30 years of climate data collected from surface stations and from weather balloons launched from sites around Antarctica. The readings revealed a shift in the Antarctic Oscillation (AAO), the seesawing pattern of pressure that controls the winds around the South Pole: in recent years, it seems, the AAO has been spending more time in its positive, strong-wind phase. According to the report, these shifts in circulation could account for almost 90 percent of the summertime cooling over parts of Antarctica. They can also explain more than half of the warming recorded over the Antarctic Peninsula, because "anomalously strong westerlies should act to decrease the incidence of cold air outbreaks from the south and lead to increased warm advection from the Southern Ocean." The researchers also suggest that the hole in the ozone layer could be partially to blame for the stronger gales. Previous research had shown that the loss of ozone molecules (which absorb solar energy) cools the lower stratosphere by six degrees Celsius each spring. Moreover, this cooling strengthens westerly winds in the stratosphere in much the same way that the AAO affects winds in the troposphere, the lowest six miles of the atmosphere. Thompson and Solomon compared the timing of the changing patterns in the two layers of the atmosphere and found a strong correlation, suggesting that Antarctic ozone depletion has played an important role in driving the continent's climatic variability. Further research is required to elucidate this link, however, because ozone is most likely only one of many factors behind the gustier winds. October 4, 2000  --  Kate Wong January 28, 2002  --  Sarah Graham Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.