Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue It's no secret we at are fans of the kinds of bold ideas that can help take humanity to a better future. Recently technology, especially digital, seems to be advancing more swiftly than ever. Noting the trend, even the policy leaders at the World Economic Forum's Davos meeting this year focused on the theme of the "Fourth Industrial Revolution." How do you know what emerging technologies are likely to make the most difference? We make our annual bets in the cover story, " ." Among the 10 advances we discuss are those that , , and Of course, a bane of any given technology is its misapplication. Consider antibiotics, the "wonder drugs" that conquered bacterial infections for decades. Resistant bacteria are rising today, largely thanks to our profligate use of these medicines, particularly on farms. The drugs keep animals in crowded conditions both healthier and able to grow faster on less food. As Melinda Wenner Moyer explains in " ," the frightening result is a cauldron of fast-spreading trouble, including methicillin-resistant (MRSA). Improving human welfare doesn't have to rely on technology. Sometimes we just have to incorporate what research has already shown into our society's policies. Politicians often speak abstractly about their support for families, for instance, but in this issue we propose a concrete solution: paid parental leave. In our Science Agenda, " ," we explain how studies show that paid leave results in healthier children and less stressed parents, without hurting businesses. The U.S., however, is the only developed nation that does not guarantee it. Although all our Science Agenda columns represent the editorial team's collective perspective, this one resonates with me more personally than usual. I had my first daughter two decades ago, when my husband and I were just able to cover our household expenses. Because I then had 10 years' tenure at a previous employer, I was able to cobble together almost six weeks of paid "vacation" time to stay home (too briefly) after her birth, so we had no income gap. I vividly remember my feeling of shock that the U.S. had not figured out such seemingly simple matters. Still, I counted myself lucky. New parents shouldn't have to count on luck. Put simply, when conditions are better for families with infants, humanity's future is brighter as well. This article was originally published with the title "Ideas to Change the World" in Scientific American  315, 6, 5 (December 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1216-5 Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.