Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Here's what Apple should fix before the next operating system update Remember when we got a few years off between operating systems? We got a little break between, say, Windows 95 and 98 or between Mac OS 8 and 9. But in 2011 Apple started releasing new versions of its Mac and iPhone operating systems every single year. Unfortunately, when you pile on new features that often, sooner or later the OS suffers. It gets harder to learn, harder to use and sometimes buggier. At this moment, Apple is working on iOS 11 for the iPhone. If history is any guide, it will come out in September. As a public service, therefore, I thought I'd helpfully point out a few things in iOS 10 that need fixing. C'mon, Apple--here's your chance to make things right! (Note: These are design fails, not features I'd like to see. I could offer plenty of those, too.) The screens on the latest iPhone models (the 6s and 7) have what Apple calls 3D Touch, meaning that they're pressure-sensitive. In many spots, touching the screen hard produces one result; pressing lightly delivers another. But how hard is hard? If you use the wrong pressure, you get a result you didn't intend. A classic example: To move or delete app icons on the iPhone's home screen, you're supposed to touch any app's icon for a couple of seconds. At that point, they all begin to--what's the technical term?-- . Now you can manipulate them. But if you try that on a 3D Touch model, you're likely to open a shortcut menu instead because you're pressing too hard. You have to cancel out and try again, remembering to press but . No way is that intuitive. Some useful features are available only to iPhones with 3D Touch. For example, only with a hard press can you adjust the brightness level of the "flashlight" (the LED on the back of the phone) or clear all the notification bubbles at once. There's no reason Apple couldn't make these features available to the millions of people who own older phones. Why couldn't a long press perform the same function as the hard press? In iOS 10, Apple reinvented the Control Center--the settings panel that appears when you swipe up from underneath the screen. Specifically, Apple split it into three "panes": one with the traditional controls (brightness, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, et cetera); one that contained music-playback controls; and a third that controlled accessories in your home. Until iOS 10, you could adjust the screen brightness by dragging horizontally on the Brightness slider. But now horizontal swiping means: "Switch to the Music controls." If your finger's aim on the Brightness slider isn't absolutely pixel-perfect, you wind up opening the Music page by accident. Happens all the time. Previous iOS versions offered something called a Genius playlist, which automatically generated lists of songs with similar musical styles. That's gone in iOS 10. But the on/off switch for the feature is still there, in the Music Settings; it does absolutely nothing. Oopsie. It's easy to create a "queue" of songs or albums that you want to hear next in the Music app. It's not so easy to that queue all at once--it's impossible. Years ago Microsoft got in trouble for bundling its own apps with Windows, making it harder for independent companies to make inroads with their software. Apple is now doing the same thing with its apps for mail, calendar, browser and maps. For example, if you ask Siri to give you directions somewhere or hit the Get Directions button on an address, the iPhone uses Apple's built-in Maps app to guide you. There's no easy way to direct it to use the far superior Google Maps. That's just 800-pound gorilla-ism. So there you go, dear Apple: a to-do list for the next release of one of the world's most popular operating systems. Please remember the principle that put you on the map in the first place years ago: simpler is usually better. This article was originally published with the title "The iOS 11 To-Do List" in Scientific American  316, 6, 26 (June 2017) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0617-26 Some android phones have features Apple should consider:  David Pogue is the anchor columnist for Yahoo Tech and host of several miniseries on PBS. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.