Read Our Latest Issue A sustainable science project from Science Buddies Material properties Forces Weight Magnetism Recycling Engineering Does your community have single-stream recycling, which allows you to mix materials into one recycling container? Have you ever wondered how those materials all get separated so they can be recycled into new things? Try this activity to find out as you build your own recycling-sorting machine! Recycling allows our old plastics, glass, aluminum and papers to be broken down and turned into new things. For example, plastic bottles might be melted down and turned into park benches or playground equipment, and old paper can be turned into new paper towels or napkins. Many communities in the U.S. now offer single-stream recycling. This allows you to mix your different types of recyclables into a single container for collection. That process presents a challenge, however. Before the materials can actually be recycled they need to be separated and sorted. You don't want bits of plastic or metal in your recycled paper towels! After recyclables are collected, they get transported by trucks to recycling plants called materials recovery facilities (MRFs). In MRFs, giant piles of mixed materials are fed through machines that separate them out into different categories and bundle them to be shipped off to processing plants. Much of the sorting is done automatically by machines that make clever use of different properties of the materials. Magnets, for example, can attract metal objects, and blowing air can separate lighter paper and cardboard from heavier objects such as glass bottles and metal cans. This process is not without its downsides. Plastic bags can clog sorting machines, which is why they typically cannot be included in single-stream recycling. Many communities only accept certain types of plastic, and they require that food containers be rinsed thoroughly before being placed in the recycling. Ignoring these guidelines can result in contamination in the recycled materials, making them unusable--so they will still wind up in the trash! This is why it's very important to make sure you follow your community's recycling guidelines. In this project you will focus on separating two materials: shreds of paper and paper clips. Can you build a machine to separate them efficiently? Try it and find out!   You probably found moderate success if you built a ramp-and-funnel-style device with magnets to separate the paper clips and paper shreds. It might be difficult to build a device that can completely separate the materials without some manual sorting. Some paper clips may whiz by the magnets without getting stuck. As more paper clips start sticking to the magnets, they can create clogs where shreds of paper get trapped. This results in two sets of materials that are better than what you started with, but still not completely separated--it probably required some manual sorting to finish the job. Real recycling plants have moving conveyor belts and powerful electromagnets that can be turned on and off. This lets them pull magnetic materials off the conveyor belt and move them away, separating them from nonmagnetic materials such as plastic, glass and paper, and reducing their chances of getting stuck together. You can recycle your paper pieces, but note that paperclips generally cannot be recycled in normal curbside collection recycling--you can reuse them at home instead.  , from NPR  , from Science Friday  , from Science Buddies  , from Science Buddies Ben Finio is a senior staff scientist at Science Buddies and a lecturer at the Cornell University Sibley School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Follow him on Twitter @BenFinio. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.