Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Case announced hours after the World Health Organization declares spread of virus stopped in west Africa When the World Health Organization , it cautioned that cases of the virus might yet re-emerge. That is exactly what has happened in Sierra Leone, where a new death from Ebola was announced hours after the WHO's statement. Health officials told reporters that a 22-year-old woman had died in Magburaka after falling ill in Baomoi Luma, near the border with Guinea. A positive test for Ebola was confirmed only after her death, which occurred earlier in the week, raising concerns that she may have been in contact with others while contagious. The case is Sierra Leone's first since it was declared free of Ebola on 7 November, although the country was still in a 90-day period of enhanced surveillance. The WHO and local partners said they were investigating its origin and identifying the woman's contacts. Although Ebola's epidemic phase appears over, isolated cases are widely expected. The WHO considers that human transmission of the virus has been halted when a country has had no new cases for 42 days (twice the virus's incubation period)--but the , and also in tissues such as the eye, the central nervous system, the prostate gland, and the placenta. It also remains . Liberia, for example, was pronounced Ebola-free in May 2015, but the virus flared up twice before the WHO could declare the country Ebola-free again on 14 January. "We are now at a critical period in the Ebola epidemic as we move from managing cases and patients to managing the residual risk of new infections," Bruce Aylward, who leads the WHO's Ebola response, said. There is a particular focus on to cause occasional cases. After a first-known case of sexual transmission of Ebola, in Liberia, was confirmed last October, Armand Sprecher, a public health specialist with Medecins sans Frontieres (Doctors without Borders) in Brussels, wrote in an editorial: "The challenge with sexual transmission is not that it would be a source of many new Ebola virus disease cases, but that it may be a source of late cases." Richard Van Noorden works for magazine. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.