Read Our Latest Issue Tips on finding a sunscreen that guards from UV rays but does not contain potentially dangerous chemicals Getting a little is important for helping our bodies generate Vitamin D, an important supplement for strong bones, and for regulating our levels of serotonin and tryptamine, neurotransmitters that keep our moods and sleep/wake cycles in order. Like anything, though, too much sun can cause health issues, from sunburns to skin cancer. For those of us spend more time in the sun than doctors recommend--they say to stay indoors between 11 AM and 3 PM on sunny days to be safe-- can be lifesavers. Getting too much sun is bad because of ultraviolet radiation, 90 percent of which comes in the form of Ultraviolet A (UVA) rays that are not absorbed by the ozone layer and penetrate deep into our skin. Ultraviolet B (UVB) rays make up the rest. These rays are partially absorbed by the ozone layer (which makes preserving the ozone layer crucial for our health), and because they don't penetrate our skin as deeply, can cause those lobster-red sunburns. Both types of are thought to cause . Yet while most sunscreens block out at least some UVB radiation, many don't screen UVA rays at all, making their use risky. According to the non-profit Environmental Working Group (EWG), by far most of the commercially available sunscreens do not provide adequate protection against the sun's harmful UV radiation and may also contain chemicals with questionable safety records. In all, 84 percent of the 831 sunscreens EWG tested did not pass health and environmental muster. Many contained potentially harmful chemicals like Benzophenone, homosalate and octyl methoxycinnamate (also called octinoxate), which are known to mimic naturally occurring bodily and can thus throw the body's systems out of whack. Some also contained Padimate-0 and parsol 1789 (also known as avobenzone), which are suspected of causing DNA damage when exposed to sunlight. Furthermore, EWG found that more than half the sunscreens on the market make questionable product claims about longevity, water resistance and UV protection. As a result, EWG has called on the U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) to establish standards for labeling so consumers have a better idea of what they may be buying. In the meantime, consumers looking to find out how their preferred brand stacks up can check out EWG's online Skin Deep database, which compares thousands of health and beauty products against environmental and human health standards. The good news is that many companies are now introducing safer sunscreens crafted from plant- and mineral-based ingredients and without chemical additives. Some of the best, according to Skin Deep, are Alba Botanica Sun's Fragrance-Free Mineral Sunscreen, Avalon Baby's Sunscreen SPF 18, Badger's SPF 30 Sunscreen, Burt's Bees' Chemical-Free Sunscreen SPF 15, California Baby's SPF 30, Juice Beauty's Green Apple SPF 15 Moisturizer, and Kabana's Green Screen SPF 15. Natural foods markets stock many of these, or they can be found online at websites like Sun Protection Center and Drugstore.com. : ; ; ; Send it to: , c/o , P.O. Box 5098, Westport, CT 06881; submit it at: , or e-mail: . Read past columns at: . Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.