Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Also: and In 1974 paleontologist Donald C. Johanson found a female skeleton 3.2 million years old that exhibited both ape and human characteristics. Johanson and Kate Wong (who is an editor at this magazine) recount the stunning discovery of Lucy, and then they venture far beyond that to bring readers up-to-date on what has been unearthed since and the implications of these new finds for what it means to be human. Right up to such current issues as speculation about mating between Neandertals and Homo sapiens: "Indeed, I believe that Neandertals and moderns were so distinct from one another in their physical appearance, hunting behavior, language, dress, customs, and so on that they would not have interbred." And about whether we are still evolving: "Although the levels of change are relatively small and do not signal impending speciation in Homo, they do call into question the oft-cited view that human evolution should have slowed down as culture increasingly buffered humans against natural selection." Conversational, knowledgeable, flowing logically from one topic to the next, the book is packed with information of the kind that will be especially intriguing to general readers.  Granted, the history of set theory does not sound like the most promising material for a good read. Oh, but it is. In the early 20th century several leading Russian mathematicians were members of a heretical sect called Name Worshipping. In this practice, repetition of the name of God induced a mystical state that, according to the authors (an American historian of science and a French mathematician), helped these scholars to achieve a breakthrough in the development of set theory and the related question of the nature of infinity. It is a tale of persecution (first by the tsar and then by the communists), political intrigue and psychological crises.  Turkle, founder of the Initiative on Technology and Self at M.I.T., examines the role computer simulation has played in science over the past 25 years. She looks at both what it offers and what it closes off as a younger generation "scrambles to capture their mentors' tacit knowledge of buildings, bodies, and bombs": This article was originally published with the title "Human Mysteries Mathematical Mysticism Resistance of the Real" in Scientific American  300, 4, 82-83 (April 2009) 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.