Read Our Latest Issue Snowflakes are symmetrical because they reflect the internal
order of the water molecules as they arrange themselves in the
solid state (the process of crystallization). Water molecules in
the solid state, such as in ice and snow, form weak bonds
(called hydrogen bonds) to one another. These ordered
arrangements result in the basic symmetrical, hexagonal shape of the
snowflake. In reality, there are many different types of
snowflakes (as in the clich that 'no two snowflakes are
alike'); this differentiation occurs because each snowflake is a
separate crystal that is subject to the specific atmospheric
conditions, notably temperature and humidity, under which it is
formed. The second question has to do with the way in which snowflakes
are formed. The growth of snowflakes (or of any substance
changing from a liquid to a solid state) is known as
crystallization. During this process, the molecules (in this
case, water molecules) align themselves to maximize attractive
forces and minimize repulsive ones. As a result, the water
molecules arrange themselves in predetermined spaces and in a
specific arrangement. This process is much like tiling a floor
in accordance with a specific pattern: once the pattern is
chosen and the first tiles are placed, then all the other tiles
must go in predetermined spaces in order to maintain the pattern
of symmetry. Water molecules simply arrange themselves to fit
the spaces and maintain symmetry; in this way, the different
arms of the snowflake are formed. Howard T. Evans, Jr., an x-ray crystallographer who is now
scientist emeritus at the U.S. Geological Survey, adds a few
details: Snowflakes are mysterious things. Their fundamental form
derives from the arrangement of the water molecules in the ice
crystal. When a liquid freezes, the molecules tend to settle in
the lowest-energy state, and that almost always involves some
form of symmetry. The higher the symmetry, the more stable the
crystal is. Water molecules floating freely in a vapor begin to arrange themselves into a crystalline solid when the temperature drops below freezing. The two hydrogen atoms of the molecules tend to attract neighboring water molecules. When the temperature (thermal motion) is low enough, the molecules link together to form a solid, open framework that has a strict hexagonal symmetry. But why are snowflake shapes so elaborate? Nobody has a good
answer for that. The general explanation is that snowflakes form
in the atmosphere where conditions are very complex and
variable. A crystal might begin to grow in one manner and then
minutes or even seconds later something changes (temperature or
humidity), so it starts to grow in another manner. The hexagonal
symmetry is maintained, but the ice crystal may branch off in
new directions. The changes in environmental conditions take
place over a large area compared with the size of a single
snowflake, so all regions of the flake are similarly affected.
In the end, there are all kinds of forms that can arise:
everything from prisms and needles to the familiar lacy
snowflakes. Water is an amazing substance! 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.