Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The development comes after four cases were reported on the West Coast with no known travel history or contact with anyone who had previously been diagnosed  The first death in the United States of Covid-19 was announced Saturday by Washington state health officials. The development, first reported by the Associated Press, comes soon after four people on the West Coast were reported to have the virus who had no known travel history and no known contact with anyone who'd previously been diagnosed. These cases took place in Northern California; in Snohomish County, north of Seattle; and outside of Portland, Oregon, and sparked concerns that the virus could be spreading furtively through communities in the Pacific Northwest, passing from person to person undetected because it doesn't necessarily make individuals sick. Health officials are now scrambling to identify more cases to try to stop further transmission. The California Department of Public Health, for instance, Friday that it would  "immediately receive an additional shipment of kits to test up to 1,200 people. This means California public health officials will get test results sooner, so that any patients will get the best care." Few details were provided about the death. "CDC is aware of the situation in the state of Washington and we have been in close contact with local health officials," said a spokesperson for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. STAT delivers fast, deep, and tough-minded journalism. We take you inside science labs and hospitals, biotech boardrooms, and political backrooms. We dissect crucial discoveries. We examine controversies and puncture hype. We hold individuals and institutions accountable. We introduce you to the power brokers and personalities who are driving a revolution in human health. These are the stories that matter to us all. February 27, 2020  --  Zeynep Tufekci | February 28, 2020  --  Tanya Lewis February 27, 2020  --  Helen Branswell and STAT February 28, 2020  --  Michael Halpern | Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.