Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Tactics that everyone can easily use to control their response to intense life circumstances If you've ever watched late-night TV, you've likely seen unfortunate advertisements for diet pills that claim to rid you of belly fat that arose from high levels of the stress hormone cortisol in the body. The pills are bunk, but the relation between cortisol levels in the body and chronic stress are real. Stress response is a vital evolutionary adaptation that allows us to run from predators or catch a train. Even if we haven't been doing either in 2020, stress levels are still running high--blame the TV again. And the pandemic. Chronic high stress levels mean constant inflammation and lead to illness and burnout. It turns out that we have the power to decrease the physiological stress response by manipulating two bodily systems on the frontlines of stress detection: the breath and our eyes. In this edition's cover story, neuroscientist Andrew Huberman gives simple but powerful tips for how to get a handle on your body's stress response immediately (see " "). I can't guarantee that the rest of the articles in this issue won't get your heart pounding in anger or fear, but at least you will have the tools to relax. This article was originally published with the title "Calm Yourself" in SA Mind 32, 1, 2 (January 2021) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0121-2 Andrea Gawrylewski is the collections editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.