Read Our Latest Issue Geophysicist Scott Luthcke and glaciologist Jay Zwally of NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center as well as several colleagues analyzed new mass measurements from the tandem Gravity Recovery and Climate Experiment (GRACE) satellites. The twin satellites, in polar orbit, one roughly 200 kilometers in front of the other, continuously monitor the distance between them. As they pass over Earths varying mass, such as mountains compared with plains, the lead satellite speeds up thanks to its attraction to the mountains, increasing the distance between the two orbiters. The trailing satellite only catches up as it passes over the same landform. By measuring this distance change, scientists can derive a picture of mass concentrations on the planet's surface. "We were able to do that every 10 days for Greenland," Luthcke notes. "What we see is a massive amount of mass shedding that far outweighs an interior growth." The team concentrated their measurements only on Greenland, in contrast with earlier studies that used global measurements and applied them to Greenland, and were able to refine these readings down to individual drainage systems on the landmass. In perfect agreement with previous results, these new GRACE measurements revealed that the same three glacial systems--including Kangerdlugssuaq, now one of the fastest moving glaciers in the world--are racing to the sea. "The glaciers are accelerating," Zwally says. "We are now losing 20 percent more coming out each year than goes in as snowfall." More data will be needed to confirm this trend, and a third year of GRACE observations should be available in the next few months. But the melting signal is clear. "There has been a significant change in a short period of time," Zwally says. "We believe that we are seeing the effects of climate warming in Greenland." And although the various estimates of the amount of loss sometimes conflict, there is an overall consensus. "This study and other GRACE studies published by [others] all agree that there is significant mass wastage of Greenland into the ocean," notes glaciologist Eric Rignot of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. "None of this has been predicted by numerical models, and therefore all projections of the contribution of Greenland to sea level [rise] are way below reality." Further, preliminary data from yet another satellite analyzing the problem--ICESat, which uses laser altimetry to precisely measure the volume of specific glaciers--shows the same thing, Zwally notes. "The change is taking place faster than we thought it would be," he adds. The consequences of climate change are arriving ahead of schedule in the form of speeding northern glaciers. David Biello is a contributing editor at . February 17, 2006  --  David Biello March 24, 2006  --  David Biello April 22, 2005  --  Sarah Graham September 16, 2002  --  Sarah Graham April 26, 1999  --  Alan Hall Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.