Read Our Latest Issue Brain scans reveal how hate begins to emerge--and it's not too far from love If love is said to come from the heart, what about hate? Along with , , and a host of other complex concepts, researchers are on the hunt for the neurological underpinnings of hatred. (fMRI) has begun to reveal how the strong emotion starts to emerge in the brain.  Neurobiologist Semir Zeki, of University College London's Laboratory of Neurobiology, led last year that scanned the brains of 17 adults as they gazed at images of a person they professed to hate. Across the board, areas in the medial frontal gyrus, right putamen, premotor cortex and medial insula activated. Parts of this so-called "hate circuit," the researchers noted, are also involved in initiating aggressive behavior, but feelings of aggression itself--as well as anger, danger and fear--show different patterns in the brain than hatred does.  Certainly loathing can spring from positive feelings, such as romantic love (in the guise of a former partner or perceived rival). But love seems to deactivate areas traditionally associated with judgment, whereas hatred activates areas in the frontal cortex that may be involved in evaluating another person and predicting their behavior.  Some commonalities with love, however, are striking, the study authors note. The areas of the putamen and insula that are activated by individual hate are the same as those for . "This linkage may account for why love and hate are so closely linked to each other in life," they wrote in the October 2008 .  This initial study, however, does not have everyone convinced that researchers have uncovered the neurological root of hatred. "This is really early in the game," says , an associate professor of psychology and neuroscience at Duke University who was not involved in the study. Other emotions, such as happiness and sadness, are much better understood, he says: "Even things like have some pretty clear neural coordinates."  The next step, Huettel points out, will be to conduct more research on clearly defined aspects and types of hatred--including rather than that aimed at individuals--then test them across several different situations. It will also be important, he notes, to look for cases in which parts of the brain have been impaired and emotional tendencies have changed. "Once you show the positive activation impairment when the brain region is damaged you have good evidence that you have at least part of the circuit," he says.  What purpose the emotion of hate serves is also still up for conjecture. Although some argue that the feeling has an evolutionary advantage--it might help an individual decide whom to confront or scorn--Huettel notes that, like pinpointing a dedicated neural circuit, it is all just "educated guesses at this point."  Don't you just hate that? September 1, 2009  --  THE EDITORS December 13, 2002  --  Sarah Graham May 1, 2008  --  Michael Shermer January 29, 2009 April 1, 2004  --  Barbara Smuts March 13, 2009  --  Katherine Harmon Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.