Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The leader of the government's push into alternative energy talks about fuel-making microbes, the next industrial revolution and how soon his high-risk projects will reach the market Arun Majumdar  Director, Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy  Washington, D.C. The wise thought leaders who created ARPA-e felt that a place to go and try out a new, high-risk idea did not exist. [That is] what ARPA-e was created for. We are saying that if energy is the next industrial revolution and if we are going to be competitive in this globally competitive world, and we are falling behind right now, gosh, let's go for it. You need ARPA-e to look for short-term translation of science into technology. Scientists at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory are making progress on electrofuels [using microbes to turn carbon dioxide back into liquid fuels similar to gasoline]. They have got a new catalyst that is cheaper, and they are taking that catalyst and attaching it to a microbe, and that's supposed to produce the hydrogen that the bug will consume to produce electrofuels. I don't think they have any idea whether the catalyst will actually work when attached to the bug, but you've got to just try it out. Now that's risky. But there are slightly less risky projects as well. My most optimistic estimate is 10 years for when these products will actually be in the hands of consumers or placed in the energy infrastructure. But frankly, look at how long the Internet took, from 1968, and ARPAnet to the late 1980s. That's 20 years. That's the sort of timescale we should be looking at. Electrofuels are really in an early stage. I don't think we should expect that any time soon. Maybe power electronics. Usually if a project does not meet its milestones [after an extension of] two or three months. We give them a little window instead of just cutting them off. Still, our primary goal is to help researchers reach their milestones and move forward. We tell our folks, look, if something's not working and we terminate a project, don't take it personally. Come back again, and we will try to support you. David Biello is a contributing editor at . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.