Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue We are often living longer--far longer--than our ancestors. But we are not always more healthy. Almost a third of all people in the U.S. who reach the age of 85, for instance, will unfortunately be diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease, often combined with other types of dementia. Some 50 million people suffer some form of mental debilitation, according to estimates--and that will worsen in the coming decades, with the global demographic shift continuing its current aging trend. Despite more than 100 current clinical trials, we have no cure. But as you will learn from this issue's cover story, " ," by researchers Miia Kivipelto and Krister Hakansson, the future may not be quite so grim. In fact, studies show that reducing the risk of Alzheimer's and other forms of dementia may include factors as simple as "good diet, exercise, an active social life and the achievement of higher educational levels." In addition to a sound mind in our autumn years, we'll want a sound body, of course. Starting , we present our annual special report on the Future of Medicine. This year the theme is "Transformers," by journalist Michael Waldholz: microbes whose genetic circuitry has been reshaped by biologists to turn them into medical treatments capable of switching on and off under certain conditions. The modified bacteria can treat genetic diseases, attack tumors and detect antibiotics. It is also just one of the many ways that science can help humanity in solving its most challenging problems. Scientists are both the subjects and authors of 's articles, the heart of this 171-year-old magazine. We are sad to report that an author of a feature in this issue, the distinguished NASA scientist Neil Gehrels, passed away after a battle with pancreatic cancer, just as the story was about to go to press. Gehrels, with S. Bradley Cenko, wrote " ," about supermassive black holes. During his career, Gehrels was perhaps best known for his transformative studies of gamma-ray bursts, the most powerful and luminous explosions in the cosmos, and the subject of a 2002 article he co-wrote for us; he and colleagues penned a feature, in 1993, about discoveries from the Compton Gamma Ray Observatory. We are truly grateful to him for generously sharing his insights over the years. This article was originally published with the title "Keeping the Future in Mind" in Scientific American  316, 4, 4 (April 2017) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0417-4 Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.