Read Our Latest Issue The pandemic offers colleges and universities an unexpected opportunity to reinvent themselves in ways that better serve students and faculty in universities, triggered by COVID-19 budget squeezes, endanger this future. The reduction in job opportunities threatens the careers of postdoctoral fellows and junior faculty. Some faculty searches that were supposed to conclude in March 2020 were cancelled without offers, and new searches have not been scheduled as of yet. If the current financial austerity persists for a few more years, it may force a cohort of early-career scientists to . This would inflict an irreversible blow to science. The lesson learned after many scientists left the Soviet Union during was that it is difficult to resurrect an academic system following an abrupt dilution of its talent pool. In the coming year, funding agencies like , , or private foundations must extend emergency support to junior researchers who are in need of another year or two of bridge funding. This will constitute a " " to our future in science and technology. But the challenge to academia extends beyond postgraduate jobs to pregraduate . Will the education system bounce back to in-person classes after a hoped-for vaccine suppresses the pandemic, or will students prefer to attend online classes from a location of their choice at a ? The answer will depend on the supply-and-demand economics of online education in the coming years. Fundamentally, the underlying question is whether learning is mostly about a transfer of information or about personal and social interactions as well. One could argue both ways, and a compromise might emerge in which the social interactions take place at a different location than the source of the online classes. Already now, many students have rented shared apartments in their favorite location, be it or the suburbs of their favorite city, while attending college online. Beyond this academic year, online teaching will between universities and internet companies to expand enrollment dramatically by offering a more  of online and offline degrees. COVID-19 forced a transition to enhanced household duties, including childcare and eldercare, which took an inescapable toll on the research productivity of many scientists. The impact was particularly acute for laboratory research in which physical presence is essential. To some, the confinement at home increased mental health needs. To many others, the pandemic enhanced financial inequalities and threatened with of the extra workload in many homes. All of these factors must be addressed by academic planning committees that will adjust the promotion and tenure policies of colleges in order to ensure that will endure. But the past months have also offered a menu of minor benefits from online communications. For example, online conferences save on travel time and expenses. To engage the audience, the format of online conferences is shifting to debates and dialogues, with recorded lecture videos serving the supporting role of background materials. Long before , question and answer sessions were advocated by the wise philosopher as the for learning and for stimulating critical thinking. In addition to the benefits for conferences, boring administrative meetings are no longer a waste of time, since passive participants can quietly pursue other activities on their computers while staying in listening mode. More generally, the lack of interruptions by unanticipated visitors to my work space has allowed me, for the first time, to reach a state of internal tranquility, recommended more than two millennia ago by the ancient Greek philosophers and . With this aim in mind, I advocated social distancing long before it became trendy. One way or another, academic life is likely to be . The damage caused by COVID-19 can be viewed optimistically as a fertile ground for establishing a better reality. A seismic change of this magnitude offers an opportunity to reboot the education system, aligning it better with our guiding principles and discarding its administrative inefficiencies. Doing so will require the drive and ideas of our younger colleagues, who will also be the primary bearers of the implications. Let's make sure that they survive the current financial storm and construct a better version of academia, following the fine tradition of improvements since the initial version of the . Avi Loeb is former chair (2011-2020) of the astronomy department at Harvard University, founding director of Harvard's Black Hole Initiative and director of the Institute for Theory and Computation at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. He also chairs the Board on Physics and Astronomy of the National Academies and the advisory board for the Breakthrough Starshot project, and is a member of . Loeb is the author of forthcoming from Houghton Mifflin Harcourt in January 2021. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.