Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue , the specialized junctions between neurons through which chemical messages flow, may not be the only places where nerve cells communicate. Based on electron microscope images of a chick embryo synapse, Terrence J. Sejnowski of the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in La Jolla, Calif., and his colleagues developed a three-dimensional computer model detailed down to nine nanometers. The investigators simulated the release of messenger chemicals and neurotransmitters within the synapse and compared their data with recordings from living cells. The data from the real neurons and the model matched only when the model released a whopping 90 percent of the neurochemicals outside the synapse. These emissions seem to almost always only activate receptors similarly lying outside the synapse, suggesting hitherto unknown channels of communication that may be more important than synapse-to-synapse chatter. The findings appear in the July 15 . This article was originally published with the title "Back-Channel Chatter" in Scientific American  293, 3, 34 (September 2005) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0905-34c Charles Q. Choi is a frequent contributor to . His work has also appeared in and among others. In his spare time, he has traveled to all seven continents. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.