Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Chemical changes in the brain predate Alzheimer's by decades in some patients A preventive treatment for Alzheimer's disease is one of medicine's holy grails. Until recently, however, testing such a regimen would have been impossible--people do not have symptoms of dementia until it is too late. Now the Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer Network project, a large international study of those whose families suffer from a heritable form of early-onset Alzheimer's, has found that those who develop the disease have chemical changes in their brain decades before symptoms appear. Although the genetic form of the disease is rare, the discovery of these early chemical signals gives scientists a much needed group of people they can use to test potential deterrents. If a drug works on them, it would probably help the rest of the population, explained scientists at the International Conference on Alzheimer's in Paris this past July. [For more on these families and the quest to prevent Alzheimer's, see " ," by Joel Shurkin; , November/December 2009.] This article was originally published with the title "An Early Warning Sign" in SA Mind 22, 6, 13 (January 2012) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0112-13b Joel Shurkin has written nine books on science and the history of science. He has taught science writing at Stanford University, the University of Alaska and the University of California, Santa Cruz. Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.