Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue   A magician's psychological subterfuge requires years to master, as Stone writes in , a foray into the underbelly of the magic culture. As an aspiring magician, Stone quickly realizes he needs to do more than practice tricks. He has to penetrate this unique subculture, in which apprentices seek out masters to hone their performance and learn codes of conduct. Magicians once relied on a vow of secrecy: never tell the audience you performed a trick. This discretion was born in part of magic's seedy roots in a time when a card cheat could wipe out the house and the slightest slipup might lead to a severe beating or worse. Magic is much safer today, and secrets are no longer so closely guarded. The celebrity illusionist duo Penn and Teller discovered, for example, that even when they explained a trick to an audience, people were still fooled--and all the more impressed at the feat. As magic grew more sophisticated, practitioners turned to behavioral science and mathematics for fresh ideas on how to exploit our perceptions. For example, in Daniel Simons's famous "invisible gorilla" experiment, subjects were asked to watch a video of people passing a basketball and tally the number of passes that occurred. Subjects who counted correctly tended to completely miss the appearance of a person in a gorilla suit. Called inattentional blindness, this phenomenon enables many illusory feats. Stone discovers that as magicians perfect their trade, fewer tricks catch them off guard; however, he finds that even the experts can be deceived. Everyone, especially magicians, yearns for the thrill of being fooled. Using vibrant, clear examples, Stone reveals that magic is not just shakedowns and con games. Rather the art of deception allows us to peek into our subconscious and understand the mathematical and psychological gears that make it turn. This article was originally published with the title " Reviews: " in SA Mind 23, 4, 72 (September 2012) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0912-72a 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.