Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Brain scanning homes in on a neural signature for physical pain Like truth and beauty, pain is subjective and hard to pin down. What hurts one moment might not register the next, and our moods and thoughts color the experience of pain. According to a report in April in the , however, researchers may one day be able to measure the experience of pain by scanning the brain--a much needed improvement over the subjective ratings of between one and 10 that patients are currently asked to give. Led by neuroscientist Tor Wager of the University of Colorado at Boulder, researchers used functional MRI on healthy participants who were given heated touches to their arm, some pleasantly warm, others painfully hot. During the painful touches, a scattered group of brain regions consistently turned on. Although these regions have been previously associated with pain, the new study detected a striking and consistent jump in their activity when people reported pain, with much greater accuracy than previous studies had attained. This neural signature appeared in 93 percent of subjects reporting to feel painful heat, ramping up as pain intensity increased and receding after participants took a painkiller. The researchers determined that the brain activity specifically marked physical pain rather than a generally unpleasant experience, because it did not emerge in people shown a picture of a lover who had recently dumped them. Although physical pain and emotional pain involve some of the same regions, the study showed that fine-grained differences in activation separate the two conditions. A brain-based marker of pain might someday help doctors assist people who have difficulties communicating, such as the very young or victims of stroke. Yet Wager does not see this neural signature as a pain "lie detector." "There are many psychological and physiological ingredients that go into a person's report of pain, and we've discovered just one ingredient here," he says. Many states of brain activity very likely give rise to pain, Wager adds, "pain is not just one thing."  Even as researchers make strides in understanding and treating pain, new discoveries raise many more questions. These recent findings reveal the deep connections between pain and many essential physical and mental processes. This article was originally published with the title "Agony in the Brain" in SA Mind 24, 4, 17 (September 2013) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0913-17b 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.