Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Designers have crafted new structures ranging from nanorods to mimics of mother-of-pearl Extraordinary properties emerge as scientists manipulate construction blocks at the nanometer scale. Diamond nanorods discovered by of the University of Bayreuth in Germany and her colleagues pack together into a dense form of carbon that is harder than diamond. Potential industrial applications for materials made from nanorods include the cutting and polishing of alloys and ceramics. Carbon was also the material chosen by and his colleagues at the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute to create superresilient springs. The researchers used a foam made of carbon nanotubes to devise springs that combine the properties of stiffness and compressibility. Repeatedly compressing a cushion typically squashes it, making it lose its springiness. But the nanotube foams remained elastic even after 10,000 squeezes, a property that could make the material suitable for artificial joints or vibration dampeners. Scientists draw inspiration from nature to come up with breakthrough materials. Modern ceramics are strong but brittle, whereas mollusk shells exhibit strength while retaining intrinsic toughness because of their finely layered mother-of-pearl, or nacre. of Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and his colleagues found they could mimic nacre just by freezing a watery suspension loaded with hydroxyapatite, bone's mineral component ( ). They built a multilayered nacrelike material that might find use in artificial bone and joints or in tissue regeneration. Research that took inspiration from the natural world may also prove useful to the electronics industry, which often requires high temperatures and harsh acids or bases to produce thin films of silicon or other semiconductors. of the University of California, Santa Barbara, found that by putting enzymes that mimic those of marine sponges onto gold surfaces, his team could create templates for growing semiconductor films. Inspiration from a lowly marine sponge may eventually yield more powerful batteries. This article was originally published with the title "Material Progress" in Scientific American  295, 6, 58 (December 2006) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1206-58a Charles Q. Choi is a frequent contributor to . His work has also appeared in and among others. In his spare time, he has traveled to all seven continents. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.