Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The ruminants seem to head due north or south when fleeing, a new study shows When something frightens grazing deer, they all suddenly bound away together in an apparently organized fashion. How does a stressed-out, possibly panicked group of animals manage to coordinate such a getaway without crashing into one another? In an effort to find out, biologist Hynek Burda of the Czech University of Life Sciences Prague and his team turned to roe deer, European ungulates that often graze in open fields. As a favorite of hunters, the deer associate humans with danger and run away when approached. During the spring and summer of 2014 the researchers deliberately startled 188 groups of grazing deer in three different Czech hunting grounds. It is reasonable to assume that the deer would run directly away from an approaching threat or toward the nearest cover. Instead the researchers discovered that the animals preferred heading toward magnetic north or south. To Burda, this observation suggests that roe deer might be able to detect the earth's magnetic field, as if they have an innate compass. "Magnetoreception is apparently a less exotic sense than usually assumed," he says. It may allow individuals in the herd to escape without colliding (because they head in the same direction), as well as to rapidly reassemble as a group once the threat has passed. The findings were published in August in . Matthew Kauffman, a zoologist at the University of Wyoming who was not involved in the study, says the results are intriguing because researchers seldom consider geomagnetism as a strategy to avoid predators. But he adds that more evidence is needed to confirm the explanation and that Burda and his group should repeat the experiment in different places during different seasons. "Lots of things in the natural environment could correlate with the cardinal directions," Kauffman says. This article was originally published with the title "Taking Direction from a Deer" in Scientific American  315, 4, 23 (October 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1016-23 Jason G. Goldman is a science journalist based in Los Angeles. He has written about animal behavior, wildlife biology, conservation, and ecology for , magazine, the , the , the BBC, magazine, and elsewhere. He contributes to 's "60-Second Science" podcast, and is co-editor of (Yale University Press). He enjoys sharing his wildlife knowledge on television and on the radio, and often speaks to the public about wildlife and science communication. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.