Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue In 2018 the Space Launch System will carry 13 shoebox-size CubeSats into deep space In 2018 the Space Launch System (SLS), the most powerful rocket ever built, will blast off into deep space. The event will serve as an astronaut-readiness test, but 13 shoe-box-sized satellites--called CubeSats--will take advantage of the "free" ride off Earth. NASA recently announced a handful of these mini missions, and their goals are as different from one another as the moon is from an asteroid. A sampling includes: The NEA Scout satellite will collect data about the spin, topography and surface compositions of asteroid 1991 VG, a near-earth object that could become a landing site for future spacecraft. This CubeSat is set to carry the first living organisms beyond low-Earth orbit since 1972: yeast. During the 18-month mission, a multitude of sensors will monitor the type and intensity of radiation the yeast encounter, as well as how they fare. Radiation exposure is a major concern for upcoming crewed missions headed for more distant destinations, such as Mars. This weather station comes packed with a magnetometer, ion spectrograph and miniaturized proton telescope. It will monitor space events in real time, including incoming radiation and solar wind, in an effort to understand how geomagnetic storms form and affect Earth. As it orbits the moon, Lunar IceCube will perform the most comprehensive scan of Earth's satellite for water to date. Previous probes have found traces of the molecule, but this one is optimized to detect water in all its forms. Accessible resources in space are considered essential for longer crewed missions. In 2017 three missions will be chosen from entries submitted by Americans unaffiliated with NASA or other government agencies. Prizes will be awarded to the teams that enter lunar orbit, travel the farthest into space or maintain the longest communication with Earth. This article was originally published with the title "Passengers Announced for NASA's Biggest Rocket" in Scientific American  314, 4, 17 (April 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0416-17 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.