Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world A clinical trial investigating a treatment for blindness is under way this winter to evaluate the safety and efficacy of replacing diseased eye cells with stem cells. Following a federal court hearing, the U.S. Navy has agreed to limit its use of sonar in specified areas around the Hawaiian Islands and southern California. Sonar activity has been shown to harm marine animals. Delta Flume, a facility that produces the world's largest man-made waves to study and improve coastal protection systems, opened in Delft. Waves reach as high as 4.5 meters. After a local seed bank in Syria was damaged in the country's civil war, researchers have made the first-ever withdrawal from the Svalbard Global Seed Vault. The master vault holds more than 860,000 seed samples collected from around the world in an effort to ensure against their loss in the wild. The replacement seeds will be stored in Lebanon and Morocco. Biologists captured underwater footage of a glow-in-the-dark sea turtle, the first reptile known to exhibit biofluorescence. The government approved a new curriculum for elementary school students, who will now learn computer coding and programming.*  This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  313, 6, 23 (December 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1215-23 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.