Read Our Latest Issue A reflective science project Physics Light Reflection Visibility Being outside in the evening can be relaxing as well as exciting and fun, but it can also be dangerous--especially if you are around roads. At dawn, dusk and during the night, it is difficult for drivers to see pedestrians. But do you think the types of clothes worn could make a difference in how visible pedestrians are to drivers? You probably know that camouflage makes you blend into the background. So, would wearing regular, noncamouflage materials be enough to make you more visible at night? Or would you choose to wear bright colors, fluorescent colors--or clothes with retro-reflective strips? This science activity will help you find out! Humans "see" when light that reflects off of objects reaches our eyes. Some colors send more light back so we see them better. For example, brightly colored objects reflect more light than dark-colored objects do. Fluorescent objects send out visible light when high-energy light shines onto them. Retro-reflective material--often referred to as reflective material, used on road signs and some safety gear, for example--bounces back almost all of the light that shines onto it. At night, there is little light available to bounce off of objects. Typical nighttime light sources (headlights or street lights) rarely contain high-energy light, the type that makes fluorescent objects so bright in daylight. In this science activity you will put three different "colors" (bright, fluorescent and retro-reflective) to the test. Which one do you think will increase visibility most in poor light conditions? Did you notice how much the retro-reflective materials aid visibility in the test circumstances? Although more light bounces off bright colors than it does off dark colors, the difference is not enough to make a pedestrian visible at night from a car with headlights on. Putting on a fluorescent-colored item might help a little, as fluorescent colors send out visible light when high-energy light shines on them. Streetlights and car headlights, however, usually do not produce much high-energy light; the small amount they do shine slightly increases the visibility, which might have made the pedestrian faintly visible in your test. This visibility was probably tiny compared with that of a pedestrian equipped with retro-reflectors. Reflectors are very efficient at reflecting the light back and into your eyes, and can significantly improve visibility at night. As you decrease the distance between the car and the pedestrian, the visibility of each of the colors increases. Still, at any distance, the retro-reflective material wins the visibility contest. Most pedestrians overestimate their visibility on the road after dark sets in. They often correctly indicate retro-reflective clothing increases their visibility but underestimate its effectiveness.  , from ScienceBlogs  , from  , from  , from Science Buddies  , from Science Buddies 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.