Read Our Latest Issue They worked for my depression. Could they be the future of psychiatry? In 2012, I had my first psychedelic experiences, as a subject in a clinical trial at . I was given two doses of psilocybin spaced a month apart to . During one session, deep within the world the drug evoked, I found myself inside a steel industrial space. Women were bent over long tables, working. I became aware of my animosity towards my two living siblings. A woman seated at the end of a table wearing a net cap and white clothes, turned and handed me a tall Dixie cup. "You can put that in here," she said. The cup filled itself with my bilious, sibling-directed feelings. "We'll put it over there." She turned and placed the cup matter-of-factly on a table at the back of the room. Then she went back to her tasks. Whenever I speak with her, Mary Cosimano, the at Johns Hopkins Center for Psychedelic and Consciousness Research, mentions the women in the chamber and the cup. My experience struck a chord. For me, the women in the chamber have become a transcendent metaphor for emotional healing. "I've thought about having a necklace made, with the cup, as a momento," she said the last time I saw her at a conference. "Have you thought about it?" Prior to their , psilocybin and LSD were administered to approximately 40,000 patients, among them people with terminal cancer, alcoholics and those suffering from depression and obsessive-compulsive disorder. The results of the early clinical studies were promising, and . The treatment certainly helped me. Eight years after my sessions, researchers continue to prove the same point again and again in an ongoing effort to turn psychedelic drug therapy into FDA-sanctioned medical treatment. This can't happen soon enough. "Psychopharmacology as a field had stalled. Many patients don't respond to conventional treatment with SSRIs," says ., professor of psychiatry and biobehavioral Sciences at Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, and the first modern clinical researcher to treat advanced-stage cancer patients suffering from depression and anxiety with psychedelics. There is little hard evidence to show that , depression or post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). And there's , which fewer and fewer insurers underwrite and ordinary people can't afford. The failure of the psychotherapeutic process is located at its epicenter: the . Merely walking through the consulting room door, the patient subordinates herself to the therapist, who, by virtue of a title, is presumed to know more about her than she does herself. and --offspring of Freudian psychoanalysis--are cogs in the same moribund engine. The field will not change until the therapeutic relationship as it has been structured since the 19th century disappears. MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine) is . MDMA is an "entactogen": it touches within in a way talking does not. Michael Mithoefer, a psychiatrist in Charleston, S.C., who has worked with military personnel and first responders, to treat PTSD. "[Treatment is] not just revisiting the traumatic experiences," he said. "It's a process of affirming a different experience on all levels, including in the body." Treatment with psychedelic drugs represents a paradigm shift in the approach to mental health. For me, the change in the field is embodied by the presence of the busy women along my journey. The women treated my feelings as matters of fact, not to be avoided, reviled or fled from, but so obvious and ordinary they could be poured into a Dixie cup and set aside. The has led to , early-stage , anorexia nervosa and . Within a few years, the patriarchal therapeutic model could be a thing of the past, supplanted by short-term guided treatment with psychoactive drugs. Erica Rex has written for , , (UK), , , and many other publications. She is a recipient of National Magazine Award for Fiction. She is working on a book about PTSD, depression, and the reintroduction of psychedelic drugs as therapy. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.