Read Our Latest Issue In a newly documented behavior, sea lions use teamwork to trap their prey along shorelines In the Pacific, off the Galapagos Islands' coast, a clever ploy leads to a hearty feast. Sea lions cannot typically catch massive yellowfin tuna--which can swim at speeds of around 40 miles per hour. But a few fishermen recently reported a peculiar hunting behavior among the Galapagos dwellers: Using teamwork, the sea lions have been chasing and trapping the tuna in coves along the archipelago's ragged coast. Photographer Tui De Roy, a Galapagos resident, recently captured this behavior in a series of striking images. The hunting technique was also recently documented on the BBC's natural history series. "I suspect [cooperative foraging] is a lot more common than we think, and there are many more observations that go unreported," says Dan Costa, an evolutionary biologist at the University of California, Santa Cruz, who had not heard of the behavior before. "Sea lions are very intelligent animals and the prerequisites for social hunting [are] certainly there." According to De Roy, the hunt begins when a few sea lions waddle offshore and into the crisp waters around Fernandina and Isabela islands. Some chase the tuna toward coves on the shoreline; others block the fish's exit back to the open ocean. Trapped between hungry predators and dry land, a few fraught tuna even jump ashore. And what is a feast without uninvited dinner guests? Sharks, frigate birds, pelicans and hawks swoop in for a bite. Costa suspects sea lion cooperative hunting behavior is similar to that of wolves. When their prey is small, the wolves hunt on their own, he says. But when it is large and can be shared, they hunt in groups. After all, he notes, "In Spanish sea lions are called or sea wolves!" The captions in this slide show are De Roy's eyewitness descriptions, edited for clarity and brevity. Yasemin Saplakoglu is a science writer based in New York City. She is a staff writer at Live Science and was an editorial intern at . June 22, 2016  --  John R. Platt April 1, 2013  --  Kate Wong August 22, 2012  --  Jessica Marshall and Nature magazine May 17, 2011  --  Lynda Sharpe Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.