Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue That ability could lead to more engaging coursework and machines that better understand human emotions Boredom manifests itself in more than yawns and glazed eyes. Subtle body cues called noninstrumental movements--squirming, scratching, shifting--also give away a person's mental state. Like teachers and other public speakers, machines can now also pick up on these telltale signs of restlessness. A new study reveals that when computer users tune in to on-screen material, their fidgeting lessens--and algorithms can use that information to discern attentiveness in real time. To measure engagement, psychobiologist Harry Witchel of Brighton and Sussex Medical School in England and his colleagues outfitted 27 participants with motion-tracking markers that a computer's visual system could follow. The participants then read digital excerpts from a novel by Mark Haddon, , and from the European Banking Authority's regulations. Based on motion in the head, torso and legs, the computer could tell when a person had mentally checked out. In fact, an analysis of the cumulative movements revealed that when people read from the novel, they fidgeted nearly 50 percent less than when reading the banking guidelines. The system, described in , adds to a growing body of research on "affective-aware technology," says Nadia Berthouze, a computer scientist at University College London. Once the program is perfected, Witchel thinks educators could use it to create digital lessons that recognize when a student's attention is fading and respond with strategies to reengage him or her. The system could also help researchers build robots that are more emotionally sensitive companions for humans. This article was originally published with the title "Plugged in or Powered Down?" in Scientific American  314, 5, 15 (May 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0516-15 Rachel Nuwer is a freelance journalist and author of (Da Capo Press, 2018). She lives in Brooklyn, N.Y. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.