Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Microbes that have never been studied in the lab make up the vast majority of such life-forms outside the human body Just as most of the matter in the universe is thought to be "dark matter," much of Earth is populated by a kind of microbial analogue: microorganisms that are known to exist but have never been grown in a laboratory. A new study, published last September in , suggests such microbes could account for up to 81 percent of all bacterial genera that live outside the human body. These little-known organisms could hold the secrets to new tools for treating disease and could help us understand life in extreme environments, such as those on other planets. Microbes are the most abundant life-form on Earth. Researchers have sequenced the DNA of many species out in the field, but they can be difficult to culture in the lab, and scientists usually grow only one species at a time to study them in a controlled setting. To determine how much microbial dark matter exists, Karen Lloyd, a microbiologist at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville, and her colleagues compared all known microbial DNA sequences with the subset from species that have already been cultured. They then inferred the fraction of microbes that have been sequenced but never cultured ( ). "We're discovering numerically that so many of the microbes on Earth are things we have never really learned anything about," Lloyd says. The sheer number of microbial species--possibly close to a trillion--means that scientists cannot possibly collect them all. Many species exist in hard-to-reach places, such as at the bottom of the ocean or under frozen Arctic soil. Furthermore, not all microbes can survive in cultures designed to nurture just one strain. Some can grow only in a far more complex, natural environment, notes environmental microbiologist Laura Hug of the University of Waterloo in Ontario, who was not involved in the study. "They get what they need from their community," she says, "so that means you can't really grow them on their own." But Lloyd is optimistic. "We have made great strides with just the known microbes, and there are potentially even more discoveries hidden in these [unknown ones]," she says. "It leaves open the possibility for really grand discoveries." This article was originally published with the title "Microbial Dark Matter" in Scientific American  320, 3, 14 (March 2019) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0319-14 Dana Najjar is a software engineer currently pursuing a master's in science journalism at New York University. She is originally from Beirut, Lebanon. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.