Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Chemists find two dangerous compounds in a wild mushroom eaten across Europe, and the chemicals could kill A wild mushroom eaten by foraging enthusiasts across Europe has been found to contain dangerous and potentially lethal toxins. Chinese scientists believe they have identified the mushroom toxins that cause rhabdomyolysis - a sometimes fatal disease that can irreparably damages the kidneys - that was first reported 15 years ago in France. However, the toxins were not isolated from the mushroom that was thought to be responsible for the deaths, but from , its close relative, highlighting These scientists are recommending that people who forage for mushrooms avoid eating both of these species. Both and  are part of a family of wild mushrooms that were thought to be edible. reported that between 1992 and 2000 there were 12 severe human rhabdomyolysis cases that led to three deaths.1 The cases occurred approximately a week after the patients ate wild mushrooms that were thought to be . By feeding mice and measuring serum creatine kinase levels - a marker for rhabdomyolysis - the researchers concluded in 2001 that this mushroom was the culprit. However, to date, no work has been carried out to identify exactly which chemicals in cause rhabdomyolysis. , a senior scientist at , and his team collected samples of both and  from beneath pine trees on the sandy coast of south-western France. They isolated 15 new triterpenoid terreolides and saponaceolides from the .2 Two saponaceolides demonstrated acute toxicity, killing mice at 88.3 and 63.7mg/kg of body weight. Both compounds increased serum creatine kinase levels in mice. 'The two new compounds are of medium toxicity, so it is possible that they work together, perhaps with other unknown mushroom toxins, in a cumulative way to cause lethal rhabdomyolysis,' Liu tells . He estimates that a person would have to eat a portion of every day for several days before the dose would be deadly. He says that it is fortunate that , prized for its flavour, is only eaten in small quantities or there might have been more fatalities. Liu says his team also identified extracts that are toxic but that the toxins differed from those found in . These data have not been published yet. 'It is possible that the rhabdomyolysis patients ate both and  or some of them confused  with ,' he says. In 2012, Liu's team published another study suggesting a may have been responsible for more than 200 deaths in China. is the most famous deadly mushroom for which the corresponding toxins are still unidentified, according to , an organic chemist at Kyoto Pharmaceutical University in Japan. But Hashimoto disagrees that  is the culprit in the poisonings attributed to . This is because poisonings caused by have been reported in both France and Poland. Although Liu's research based on samples from France link  to rhabdomyolysis, the Polish cases may still prove a link between and the disease. In addition,  and look quite different, so the two mushrooms should not be easily confused. ' has a grey cap and white flesh, [while] has a yellow to brown cap and yellow flesh,' Hashimoto says. , a fungus taxonomist at in China, says Liu's research indicates the complexity of fungus toxicity. 'One toxic mushroom can contain different types of toxins and the same toxin's toxicity can change in accordance with the environment,' says Li, adding that it is easy to make a mistake when identifying fungi because there are so many of them. 'Thus, it is important to identify the level of toxicity resulting from consuming different amounts and different combinations of mushrooms,' Li explains. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.