Read Our Latest Issue A solution of administered to patients on mechanical ventilators cut the incidence of pneumonia nearly in half, suggesting that probiotics may be useful for the prevention of hospital-acquired infections How's this for preventative medicine?: Ingesting bacteria may help to prevent infections. Researchers at Creighton University School of Medicine in Omaha, Neb., recently demonstrated that regular doses of probiotic bacteria given to hospital patients on mechanical ventilators resulted in fewer cases of pneumonia. The findings were published June 3 in the . Probiotics, live microorganisms thought to provide a health benefit when consumed in sufficient amounts, are frequently used to mitigate a variety of conditions, including digestive disorders such as antibiotic-associated diarrhea, lactose intolerance and irritable bowel syndrome. Scientific evidence to back many claims, however, is often preliminary at best or lacking entirely. The new study demonstrates that one strain of so-called can prevent pneumonia in some patients, and may be useful for the prevention of hospital-acquired infections. Lee Morrow, an associate professor of medicine at Creighton and lead author of the study, along with his colleagues administered a solution containing the human intestinal probiotic bacteria, GG or a placebo to 138 critically ill patients on ventilators. The study was designed so that neither patients nor care providers knew which group received probiotics. The patients received treatment twice daily and were monitored routinely for the presence of pneumonia-causing pathogens. The researchers observed that probiotic treatment reduced the number of cases of pneumonia by nearly half. "We chose to study probiotics in this context because (VAP) is increasingly caused by pathogens associated with , and the supply of is essentially nonexistent for the foreseeable future," Morrow said in a prepared statement. Pneumonia affects nearly 30 percent of patients on ventilators; it can result when microorganisms from the mouth or ventilator equipment are inhaled into the lungs. In addition to causing health complications for individuals who are already critically ill, VAP results in higher health care costs. "This is an enormous accomplishment," says Donald Craven, a physician at the in Burlington, Mass., who was not involved in the study. The results "hold promise for trying to prevent an infection that has serious morbidity, mortality and is a major factor for hospital costs that we're trying to contain," he adds. Patients receiving probiotics were also less likely to develop diarrhea caused by , a common bacterium found in health care venues, and required less antibiotic treatment when infections occurred. No side effects were associated with either the placebo or probiotic treatment. In support of the current findings, a recent systematic review of previous studies of the use of various probiotic strains suggested that probiotics may reduce VAP by 39 percent. The mechanism by which probiotics prevent pneumonia, however, remains unresolved. Some evidence suggests that probiotics may modulate the immune system to help it to ward off pathogens. Future studies will be necessary to identify the precise mechanism as well as the optimal dose and strain of probiotics for specific conditions. Under certain circumstances probiotics can actually be harmful and cause secondary infections. The authors cautioned that their preliminary findings apply only to the carefully monitored study population, and should not be generalized to all hospital patients. Furthermore, the results need to be replicated by research at other care facilities, ideally using a diversity of patient populations. Nevertheless, Morrow and colleagues suggest that probiotic treatment could be a novel, inexpensive, nonantibiotic approach to preventing secondary infections. Using GG to prevent pneumonia "appears safe and efficacious in a select population of patients," the authors concluded. December 16, 2009  --  Katherine Harmon March 1, 2009  --  Clifton E. Barry III and Maija S. Cheung October 1, 2009  --  Nathalie Gar&#231;on and Michel Goldman October 14, 2008  --  Jordan Lite May 15, 2008  --  Jeanne Erdmann July 1, 2009  --  Christopher T. Walsh and Michael A. Fischbach Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.