Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Books and recommendations from  Mario Livio Simon & Schuster, 2013 ($26) Astrophysicist Livio unmasks the flaws in the work of some of our greatest scientific minds in this meditation on the winding, unpredictable path of discovery. Chemist Linus Pauling, a favorite to win the race to determine the structure of DNA in the 1950s, astonished his colleagues by proposing an erroneous "triple helix" model. The mistake allowed James Watson, Francis Crick and Maurice Wilkins to sneak past him to the Nobel podium. Charles Darwin was slow to grasp that the concept of "blended inheritance"--the theory that parental traits are blended in offspring the way paint colors might mix on a palette--was incorrect and in conflict with natural selection. Livio shows how these mistakes and others acted as catalysts that enabled scientific breakthroughs. This article was originally published with the title "Brilliant Blunders" in Scientific American  308, 5, 82 (May 2013) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0513-82a Anna Kuchment is a contributing editor at and a staff science writer at the . Previously a reporter, writer and editor with magazine, she is also author of , which is about bacteriophage viruses and their potential as weapons against antibiotic resistance. Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.