Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The persona of some fishes bends to conform to group dynamics, but it ultimately remains constant As any pet owner will tell you, humans aren't the only animals with personalities. And it isn't just dogs and cats. In recent years scientists have found that members of many species, from hermit crabs to rats to fish, have unique dispositions, demonstrating consistent behavioral differences over time and across varying situations. But how do social situations affect individual personalities? University of Bristol biologist Christos C. Ioannou and his colleagues sought to find out by turning to a small fish called the three-spined stickleback, which inhabits brackish coastal waters throughout the Northern Hemisphere. "They're found both as individuals and in social groups in the wild," making them perfect for personality assessments across different settings, Ioannou says. The researchers took 80 fish and placed each under a protective cover at one end of a tank. At the opposite end was some food. Crossing the tank to feed would seem risky to the sticklebacks because open water typically exposes them to the threat of predation. Each fish behaved consistently over several days. Bolder ones quickly left the safety of the refuge to go for the food. Timid ones took longer to emerge and swam across the tank more cautiously. But when 10 sticklebacks were placed under the cover together, each fish's individual persona faded away. As with humans, the bolder individuals served as group leaders--albeit careful ones. "The first individuals come out relatively quickly, but it almost looks like they realize they're not being followed and so wait for others to catch up with them," Ioannou says. When separated from the group later on, the fish regained their original personalities. The results were published in September in . The new findings suggest that group dynamics tamp down individual personalities, and the researchers say it is the first time that such suppression has been explicitly linked to an underlying cause: the need to conform when faced with a risky decision. Animal personality researchers have historically focused on individuals while ignoring the way they behave in groups, and collective behavior researchers have focused on groups while downplaying individual differences, according to University of St. Andrews animal behavior researcher Mike Webster, who was not involved in the work. "What this study really does is bring those two streams of research together," showing that animal personalities are flexible yet also persistent, he says. This article was originally published with the title "One's True Nature" in Scientific American  315, 6, 24 (December 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1216-24 Jason G. Goldman is a science journalist based in Los Angeles. He has written about animal behavior, wildlife biology, conservation, and ecology for , magazine, the , the , the BBC, magazine, and elsewhere. He contributes to 's "60-Second Science" podcast, and is co-editor of (Yale University Press). He enjoys sharing his wildlife knowledge on television and on the radio, and often speaks to the public about wildlife and science communication. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.