Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the April 2012 issue of  Maryn McKenna does not mention controls for medical history in her article on evidence that foodborne pathogens cause lifelong consequences, "Food Poisoning's Hidden Legacy." An elevated incidence of renal impairment and circulatory problems within six years after individuals suffered severe immediate symptoms of ingestion, as compared with those suffering mild or no symptoms, does not prove their exposure was the cause. That conclusion assumes that there was no preexposure renal or circulatory dysfunction. For instance, a compromised excretory system could cause a more severe response to ingestion and, if not identified a priori, could later be perceived as a consequence of the exposure. Alternatively, those with a propensity for development of these medical conditions may have a heightened sensitivity to . Correlation alone does not prove causality. Peter Irwin  Affected joints after infection with bacteria, reported by McKenna, are an old, but apparently forgotten, problem. Those of us who have worked in developing countries have seen, treated and followed up on patients with typhoid fever, a severe infection caused by . Pain and swelling of the joints may continue long after discharge and apparent recovery. The different types of joint problems following typhoid infection listed by surgeon William W. Keen in 1898 included joint infection during the illness, rheumatic typhoid arthritis and septic typhoid arthritis. And Charles W. Wilson reported patients developing swollen joints after typhoid infections in the in May 1899. We now see that other salmonellae can produce the same long-term problems. Alan Dugdale   On reading "The Limits of Breath Holding," by Michael J. Parkes, I was reminded that in 1958 I decided to see how long I could hold my breath underwater. I found that if I floated face down and relaxed, I could flex my diaphragm muscles repeatedly to delay the urge to take a breath. Eventually I was able to do so for almost four minutes. Jon Otterson  . There is a counterpart to holding one's breath: expelling air completely and seeing how long one can go before inhaling. There is a break point there, but the diaphragm is "held" in a state of complete relaxation instead of contraction. Does the same mechanism affect both sides of this coin? Bryon Moyer  My foster mom claims that one late evening I was too quiet, and she found me unresponsive and turning blue. I was fortunate in not becoming another statistic of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). Could the role of a not so fully developed or underdeveloped diaphragm explain "involuntary breath holding" in infants and thus SIDS? Bennett A. Wallace  .  .  "Time Traveler," Richard Milner's short essay on artist Charles R. Knight, makes no mention of the many errors of reconstruction we now know to be in Knight's paintings of prehistoric creatures. It seems ironic to praise Knight for his illustrations of living creatures and to suggest that what he learned from these observations informed his dinosaur paintings and to then provide the reader with Knight's view of a and with dragging tails. John Byrne   .  .  An important piece of history on the development of oral polio vaccine is missing in "Birth of a Cold War Vaccine," by William Swanson: neither Albert B. Sabin nor Jonas E. Salk received the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for their vaccines. Instead, in 1954, the Nobel committee awarded it to John Franklin Enders, then at Harvard Medical School, and his colleagues. Prior to the work of the Enders group, it was not possible to produce a polio vaccine, because people thought that this virus, which affects nerve cells, could be grown only in nerve tissue. (Vaccine based on nerve tissue-grown viruses can cause allergic encephalomyelitis, inflammation of the brain and spinal cord.) Enders and his associates found that this virus could be grown in monkey kidney cells, and that is what made it possible to develop a polio vaccine. Pinghui V. Liu  .  It is a sad coincidence that "This Is Your Brain in Meltdown"--Amy Arnsten, Carolyn M. Mazure and Rajita Sinha's article describing how neural circuits for self-control shut down under stress--hit the newsstands the same week as the killing of 16 civilians in Afghanistan by a U.S. soldier. One can only hope that the authors' work and that of others will help reduce and perhaps prevent such tragedies and meltdowns in general. The current results do raise anew the fear, however, that every misbehavior, from murder on down to cheating at Scrabble, will eventually, and conveniently, be ascribed to a brain malfunction. Andre Rocque   I have observed that a small minority of people can "rise to the occasion"--their memories and minds do not go blank under stress--and that such people are more capable than most others in stressful situations. I wonder if the signaling pathways in their brain might differ from the typical person? It seems that champion players of the game show would be a ready sample of such individuals. Tim Budell  . This article was originally published with the title "Letters" in Scientific American  307, 2, 8-9 (August 2012) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0812-8 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.