Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The new sampler sucks up the tiny creatures without tearing them apart Oceanographers can learn a lot about marine food webs and chemical vents at the bottom of the ocean by analyzing the larvae of tiny plankton that live along the seafloor. But moving a robot vehicle to precise spots along the pitch-black, irregular surface is difficult. So is sifting through large volumes of water to snag the fragile critters, barely visible in size, without tearing them apart. In July the Sentry autonomous underwater vehicle took a new sampler, called SyPRID, to six methane seeps in the Atlantic Ocean between North Carolina and Nantucket, in some cases more than 2,000 meters down. SyPRID, nicknamed Plankzooka for its bazooka rocket-launcher shape, retrieved 132 distinct species. The precision sampling, says Carl Kaiser, vehicle program manager at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, "will allow scientists to analyze the difference between larvae at 2.5 meters from the bottom versus five meters or, say, 10 meters away from a vent versus 50--great comparative studies." This article was originally published with the title "Deep-Sea Sampler" in Scientific American  313, 5, 26 (November 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1115-26a Mark Fischetti is a senior editor at . He covers all aspects of sustainability. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.