Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Materials scientists put together a periodic table of substitute availability for metals, and the picture is grim Half a century ago only a handful of materials were in widespread use for consumer and industrial products--wood, iron and brick, to name a few of the most prominent ones. Today a single computer chip contains more than 60 elements, ranging from tungsten to ytterbium. Contemporary technology's reliance on such diverse resources, particularly metals, piqued the interest of Thomas Graedel, an environmental scientist at Yale University. With increasing demand for these elements, are replacements available if a shortage occurs? In most cases, no. In fact, strong substitutes exist for none of the examined 62 metals or metalloids on the periodic table in all their uses, Graedel and his colleagues found after a comprehensive analysis of the elements' properties, life cycles and applications. And inadequate or nonexistent alternatives plagued a dozen metals when it came to their major uses. Replacements in these cases invariably would lead to degraded performance. There may be a silver lining to situational scarcities, however, Graedel says. They should inspire engineers to design completely novel, transformative materials. This article was originally published with the title "Elemental Urgency" in Scientific American  314, 2, 22 (February 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0216-22 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.