Read Our Latest Issue Inside information from the bigwigs of the wireless world In , I chased down the answers to questions about wi-fi that have plagued mankind from the beginning--at least, the beginning of wireless Internet. Things like "Why do I have four bars but still can't connect?" and "Why do I see a phony hot spot called 'Free Public Wi-Fi' in airports?" Here's an online special for you: Three more questions--and answers, provided by the people who should know.  For this one, I consulted a man who was there at the beginning: Alex Hills, author of . His answer: "Way back in 1999 the fledgling wireless industry needed a marketing name for the new products that conformed to the technical specifications called 'IEEE 802.11'. 'IEEE 802.11' didn't have much of a ring to it, and the industry association wanted a catchy name. They came up with wi-fi, and that's what's been used ever since. "It didn't hurt that the name rhymes with 'hi-fi,' which was short for 'high fidelity,' a term that, back in the day, referred to high-quality sound systems. Some people even say that wi-fi therefore stands for 'wireless fidelity,' but those who were involved in the industry association's process of selecting a name say it's not really true. They say that the name was always just wi-fi."  From Glenn Fleishman, tech guru and blogger for "Babbage" blog: "Wi-Max made sense briefly, during the multiple-year gap between third-generation (3G) and fourth-generation (4G) mobile cellular standards. Wi-Max could make use of otherwise unused spectrum quite efficiently and achieve speeds high above the 3G standards of a few years ago; I remember getting network speeds of eight Mbps [megabits per second] via Wi-Max a few years ago, at a time when AT&T and Verizon Wireless could deliver no more than two Mbps. "But the Wi-Max companies couldn't raise enough money to build out as fast as was necessary to provide a viable network alternative across the U.S. nor build as densely as needed; meanwhile, time--and worldwide standards--caught up. Sprint, Clearwire and a handful of others pledged to Wi-Max, but no other U.S., European or Asian carrier adopted it. LTE [Long Term Evolution] became the dominant 4G standard around the world; even Sprint and Clearwire intend to move to LTE. Wi-Max was amazing for a brief window, but has been left behind. "As for citywide wi-fi, Wi-Max turned out to be a poor technology to provide consistent coverage. It was cheaper to build fast cellular networks."  I went straight to the source for this one: Kelly Davis-Felner, marketing director of the Wi-Fi Alliance--the consortium of engineers who dreamed up (and continues to enhance) wi-fi: "The 802.11 alphabet soup is a naming system for various projects in IEEE [the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, the standards organization that defines the technology underlying wi-fi]. The wi-fi industry used to refer to a few of these names to help users know when there had been another performance improvement to the technology, and to navigate the two frequencies in which wi-fi works. "Here's the timeline: 802.11b: First widely commercialized version of wi-fi, ratified in 2000. Data rate of about 11 Mbps, on the 2.4 GHz [gigahertz] band 802.11a: Ratified in 2002. Operates in five GHz band [where it encounters less interference with cell phones and microwaves] and delivers data rate of about 54 Mbps 802.11g: Ratified in 2003. Fifty-four Mbps in 2.4 GHz band, so backward-compatible with 11b 802.11n: Ratified in 2009. Up to 600 Mbps [in most commercial configurations, about 250 Mbps] in both 2.4 and five GHz frequency bands. A dual-band product that works with 802.11a and 802.11b/g products 802.11ac: Coming to a wi-fi-certified device near you in early 2013. About 1.3 Gbps of data [yes, that's gigabits per second]. "While the Wi-Fi Alliance and the wi-fi industry used to point to these naming conventions a lot, now we just call it wi-fi. "There are many other 802.11 designations. They refer to a wide array of features that ship in products today--but, thankfully, the industry hasn't burdened users with their names and details. "Some examples include 802.11i, which underpins the wi-fi security we have today; 802.11e, which includes important mechanisms to support multimedia applications; and 802.11u, which makes up part of the forthcoming Wi-Fi CERTIFIED Passpoint program we are developing, which will make getting on to hot spot networks as seamless as it is with a mobile phone on 3G today." David Pogue is the anchor columnist for Yahoo Tech and host of several miniseries on PBS. Credit: Nick Higgins May 1, 2012  --  David Pogue March 21, 2012  --  David Pogue April 1, 2012  --  David Pogue January 1, 2012  --  THE EDITORS September 22, 2011  --  Geoff Brumfiel and Nature magazine Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.