Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Curled up with a blanket, laptop and cup of tea, I checked my e-mails from the dating Web site I had recently joined. I had high hopes: much as I might hunt online for a new neighborhood caf to try, I could now search for love just as systematically. The messages I received told a different story. One suitor wrote: "Hey miss, dug your toe tag." (What!) Another: "You're asking for a lot in your profile (which is a bit boring I might add)." A third: "I stand out from the rest!! Reason 1 I am normal hehe LOL." My account did not stay active for long. " ," by Eli J. Finkel et al. on page 26, demystifies this psychological minefield, explaining the art of message writing and the ways online dating toys with our expectations. One tip for navigating these sites: strictly limit the time spent perusing profiles. Reading numerous dating profiles taxes our working memory--a capacity that correlates with intelligence. New research shows that we can strengthen this ability to keep many items in mind. See "Building Better Brains," by John Jonides et al. on page 59, part of this issue's special report on education. Training working memory is one of several new approaches for improving learning. In " ," on page 48, 's Ingrid Wickelgren visits a school that aims to augment children's academic skills by cultivating their self-control. Helping families manage chronic stress, which can harm young brains, also makes a difference, as Clancy Blair writes in " ," on page 64. Not all mental toxins can be countered with training. Unfortunately, many promising psychiatric drugs never reach the market. Gabriella Rosen investigates the common practices that may be causing clinical trials to fail in " ," on page 34. Optimal mental health begins with self-knowledge. Whether seeking to crack the code for love or puzzling out a cipher in math class, let brain science be your guide. This article was originally published with the title "Meet Your Match" in SA Mind 23, 4, 1 (September 2012) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0912-1 September 1, 2012  --  Eli J. Finkel, Paul W. Eastwick, Benjamin R. Karney and Susan Sprecher September 1, 2012 September 1, 2012  --  Bruce Hood September 1, 2012  --  THE EDITORS September 1, 2012  --  John Jonides, Susanne M. Jaeggi, Martin Buschkuehl and Priti Shah Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.