Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Apparently, to paraphrase Gertrude Stein, when you come here, 
there's no here here   New York City had its funding cut by 40 percent from last year.   Homeland Security officials said that they determined the amount of each grant based on a formula.   The formula counts the presence of "national monuments or icons." Homeland Security officials determined that New York City had no such national monuments or icons.   Scientists also develop formulas.   When a formula produces results that are obviously nonsense, scientists examine the data.   Responding to a hurricane of criticism, Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff explained that the Empire State Building was purposefully placed in the "large office building" category rather than the icon category because that designation helps to generate a higher risk score. Here's a flash for the folks gaming their own formula: the Empire State Building is a large office building an icon.   When a formula produces results that are obviously nonsense, scientists may also scrutinize, modify or even discard the formula itself. It's not easy, but somebody has to do it. Seriously, somebody to. Steve Mirsky was the winner of a Twist contest in 1962, for which he received three crayons and three pieces of construction paper. It remains his most prestigious award. Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.