Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Research shows that the benefits may outweigh the drawbacks A century ago, in 1918, the U.S. started the collective clock-changing ritual known as daylight saving time, or DST. Today more than 70 countries observe the practice, although how it is implemented has varied over the years. In general, the one-hour shift prevents sunrise from happening too early and allows sundown to go later, when compared with a typical work day of 9 A.M. to 5 P.M. Debates about the practice have raged since it began. In recent years the U.S. government's stated goal for DST is to save energy by adding natural light to evenings. Several new studies have pointed to some liabilities, such as higher rates of heart attacks and traffic accidents after citizens set their clocks forward each spring. "The shift to DST has some drawbacks," but many ill effects last just a few days, says David Prerau, who wrote a book on the practice. "Balance that against eight months of later sunsets." This article was originally published with the title "The Case for Daylight Saving Time" in Scientific American  318, 3, 76 (March 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0318-76 Katie Peek, formerly the information graphics editor at , is a science journalist and data-visualization designer. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.