Read Our Latest Issue A twilight activity from Science Buddies Biology Vision Pupil Light Color Have you ever considered taking a nighttime nature walk? Would you wait until there is a full moon so you could benefit from sunlight reflected from the moon--or would you rather take a flashlight? Do you think trees would look black, green or gray in the dark? Try this activity to examine your night vision and prepare for your next nighttime adventure! Sight begins when light enters the eye. This light triggers light-sensitive cells in the retina at the back of the eye. As a result signals zoom along the optic nerve to the brain. The brain then makes sense of the signals, giving us the experience of seeing. The pupil is the opening in the middle of the front of the eye that allows light to enter. Humans have round pupils. They appear black because light almost never escapes through them. The colored part around the pupil called the iris adjusts the size of the pupil. Its main function is to regulate the amount of light that enters the eye. In dim light the pupils dilate (open wider) so more light can enter. Switch to bright light and the pupils automatically contract. This is the result of a nerve signal generated in the back of the eye triggering the muscles in the iris. Because some nerve connections cross over to the other eye, both pupils contract in unison.   Did the pupils expand when exposed to a low-light environment and contract when there was plenty of light? Were you able to recognize objects in dim light but unable to recognize their colors? That is what our eyes are designed for. Pupil size changes to optimize vision in a large range of light conditions. When there is bright light a smaller opening in the eye--or a smaller pupil--protects the back of the eye from getting damaged. In dim light the pupils dilate to allow as much light in as possible. That is why you see the pupils change size when light conditions change. Red light, however, does not trigger pupil contraction as much as other colors of light, making a red flashlight ideal for enjoying the night landscape. Light-sensitive cells in the retina at the back of our eye allow us to see. The human eye has two types: cones and rods. Rods are extremely efficient; a tiny amount of light can trigger them. They are responsible for our night vision. They detect lines, contrast and movement--but they cannot distinguish color. The cones are responsible for color vision but they need plenty of light to activate. That is why in dim light conditions you could recognize an object but failed to detect its color.  , from  , from Arizona State University  , from  , from  , from Science Buddies 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.