Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Massachusetts Institute of Technology
This eclectic investigator draws inspiration from nature's genius for building things at the nanoscale The crux of nanotechnology is the problem of self-assembly, getting uncooperative atoms to link and align themselves precisely. We know it can be done, of course: life persists by turning molecules into complex biological machinery. How fitting, then, that one of today's most creative materials scientists, Angela Belcher of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, has turned to nature for assistance. Belcher has pioneered the use of custom-evolved viruses in synthesizing nanoscale wires and arrays, fusing different research disciplines into something uniquely her own. Belcher's goal is to harness living things as factories for assembling materials made from any of the elements of the periodic table. Her greatest success has come from the M13 bacteriophage, a long, tubular virus six nanometers wide. She engineered a version of the virus that latched onto quantum dots, tiny specks of semiconductor with desirable electromagnetic properties. By suspending the virus particles, she could make them line up, an effective means of creating finely spaced layers of quantum dots that are separated by layers of virus. More recently, she customized M13 to stud its length with metal particles such as cobalt oxide and gold, yielding metal nanowires that could be assembled into high energy-density electrodes. Those could be incorporated, for example, into lightweight, thin-film batteries that can be easily molded to fit any space. Belcher co-founded Cambrios Technologies in Mountain View, Calif., to turn some of these demonstrations into commercial devices such as flexible, touch-sensitive screens and light-emitting diodes. In her work, DNA shows its worth as more than just the code of life. This article was originally published with the title "Angela Belcher" in Scientific American  295, 6, 50 (December 2006) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1206-50a JR Minkel was a news reporter for . 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.