Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Editor in Chief Mariette DiChristina introduces the September 2010 issue of After waiting in the long customs queue at JFK airport in New York City a few years ago, I found myself before an agent with a dour expression. He wondered: What kind of work, exactly, requires a trip to Europe and back in less than three days? As I drew breath to explain my job as an editor at , his eyes dropped to the slim volume in my hand, and he suddenly beamed. "Oh, I read that book, and it was terrific." He handed me back my passport. "Welcome home." The book? (W. W. Norton, 2003), by Mary Roach. I'd heard it was witty and thought it would be diverting for a long international flight. It was. In fact, I was well into the chapter on what happens to bodies during airplane crashes before I noticed I'd been reading it at 35,000 feet over the Atlantic Ocean. After a pause (in which I confess I thought about the wisdom of tempting fate), I read on. I was rewarded with fascinating scientific information and, more than that, a good story. You just never know when a willingness to engage with possibly uncomfortable topics might have an upside. Now that you have reached the beginning of "The End," our annual special single-topic issue, we hope it will provide similar benefits. As you read, you may come to appreciate, as I have, how an apparent finish can often be just another way to open a new door. for a thoughtful introduction to the feature section by staff editor Michael Moyer, who organized the issue. That is not to say it is always easy to take a hard look at finales. When it comes to contemplating our own mortality, the nature of our consciousness actually makes it impossible to imagine the world without us. Consider, as Jesse Bering, director of the Institute of Cognition and Culture at Queen's University Belfast, wrote in our sister publication, , that you will never know you have died: "You may feel yourself slipping away, but it isn't as though there will be a 'you' around who is capable of ascertaining that, once all is said and done, it has actually happened." Partly for this reason--the difficulty and possible discomfort about some of the topics we wanted to cover--the editors have mulled and then put aside this issue annually for the past few years. How would people react? Would it "die" on the newsstand? (Ouch, I know.) For my part, I find contemplating the future fascinating, whether it is my own, the planet's or even the universe's: this issue explores all three and then looks at what comes after the end in many related areas as well. The topic also seems the perfect alpha-and-omega bookend to our single-themed issue last year, "Origins." When you're done with this issue, you can find more on the home page of www.ScientificAmerican.com, including a special interactive package about the feature article, " " which was developed with Zemi. And during the week of August 23, you can listen to several of the editors and other experts in interviews and related stories on WNYC's national morning radio news program "The Takeaway" (more at ). As always, let us know what you think. Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.