Read Our Latest Issue Some scientists are self-administering an untested product. Is doing so legal or ethical? In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, members of the Rapid Deployment Vaccine Collaborative (or RaDVaC)--a group composed of scientists and their friends or colleagues--have been (the virus that causes COVID-19). The RaDVaC scientists describe their project as aiming " ." Although the project's white paper includes includes terms and conditions designed to shield the authors from liability, RaDVaC's self-experimentation raises important legal and ethical questions. Self-experimentation has a fascinating history. In the early 1900s, Walter Reed conducted experiments in Cuba deliberately exposing individuals to yellow fever that included members of the study team as participants; these led to significant public health benefits in confirming that yellow fever was transmitted by mosquitoes, but also resulted in the . Some Nobel Prize-winning work by scientists was based on self-experimentation that initially was seen as crazy. For instance, in 1984, Barry Marshall to prove that they caused gastritis and peptic ulcers. Many cardiac procedures are based on a by a German doctor who inserted a catheter into his own heart. Perhaps surprisingly, self-experimentation was once considered an ethical safeguard. , established in response to grossly unethical experiments during World War II, permitted higher risk research if investigators also volunteered to participate, as they had in the earlier yellow fever studies. However, the idea that self-experimentation can justify higher research risks was abandoned in . Not only is self-experimentation legally and ethically complex, but protections like independent review and informed consent, which are now required by , may be a better way to protect research participants. Existing regulations for research were not designed to address self-experimentation. Laws governing research typically define research as an activity designed to produce generalizable knowledge, which , unlikely to produce useful data, and merely aiming to protect a small group of people. In addition, the U.S. Common Rule governs federally funded research, and RaDVaC is not using any federal funding. However, Harvard is covered by a " " under which the institution has agreed that all research it conducts will abide by the regulations (regardless of funding source). If studies of immune responses involving self-experimentation are planned in George Church's laboratory at Harvard, as has been reported, this undoubtedly requires approval by an Institutional Review Board, which would provide some oversight of this self-experimentation. If results are to be published in a peer-reviewed journal, moreover, most, if not all, would require assurance of regulatory review and oversight. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration has similar power to , and, perhaps more relevant for our purposes, " " (including human biological materials and biologics)--even if they are not distributed for profit. The RaDVaC project uses biological materials--more specifically, small chains of amino acids from key SARS-CoV-2 proteins--and therefore may fall under the FDA's jurisdiction. While the FDA has not traditionally exercised this authority to regulate the analogous practice of small scale, do-it-yourself biohacking, it . Finally, if people were harmed by taking this vaccine, they could also sue RaDVaC, but the disclaimers in the white paper are carefully designed to avoid liability. Even if the law doesn't adequately address this behavior, it may be ethically problematic--including because it could be a waste of scientific expertise and research effort. If RaDVaC intends to produce generalizable knowledge about this vaccine, unsystematic self-experimentation is unlikely to produce useful information. For example, self-experimentation can lead to biased results if researchers overestimate the chance that the vaccine works, or fail to report side effects. Randomized controlled trials, by contrast, are typically designed with researchers being blinded to who receives the intervention or the placebo. Beyond self-experimentation, friends, staff members, and family members of the scientists involved are taking this vaccine based on these expert's recommendations, which could lead to two potential misconceptions. First, people taking the vaccine might overestimate the likelihood that they are protected from SARS-CoV-2 and change their behavior. If some individuals falsely believe they are protected, they might engage in riskier behavior that could cause harm to themselves and others. A second misconception is the idea that this is research that could benefit others. One participant seemed to believe this when he added "my continued existence through this pandemic will be a useful data set." Yet the RaDVaC project could not produce useful data in the same way as standard, well-designed vaccine trials, for example, because it is unclear whether individuals receiving the vaccine are thoroughly evaluated or monitored, and there does not appear to be a control group. Even if everyone involved with this project fully understands what they are getting into, however, there are also questions about expertise and privilege. Senior scientists benefit from many layers of privilege: investment in their education, expertise in specialized areas, and access to information or materials. Arguably, these privileges come with a to use expertise for the benefit of society. If the RaDVaC vaccine is potentially beneficial, then it is tragic not to test it in a rigorously designed study. Indeed, uncontrolled self-experimentation is part of a larger problem in the COVID-19 pandemic. Panic about the virus has led to the widespread use of interventions outside of well-designed clinical trials. , we remain in the dark about which interventions offer net benefits or net harms. Insofar as the scientists involved have expertise in vaccine research, they should either reform the RaDVaC project or lend their expertise to serious projects. On the other hand, if scientists don't have relevant expertise, their overconfidence at their ability to work outside of their wheelhouse may be harmful. Earlier this week, Steven Salzberg, a computational biologist, called for experimental COVID-19 vaccines to be rolled out before the results of phase III testing. An was published the next day, and . Similarly, some of the named members of the RaDVaC project have expertise in genetics, neuroscience, and anti-aging research. Their time might be better spent on projects in these fields, which will still be important . Rather than trying everything but the kitchen sink against COVID-19, it would be wiser to focus our collective efforts on and testing them in , as has been done for some . RaDVaC's scientists should be encouraged to collaborate on systematic COVID-19 vaccine testing if they have relevant expertise, and to do other valuable things with their time if not. Seema K. Shah, JD, is an associate professor in pediatrics at Northwestern University's Feinberg School of Medicine and an associate director of the bioethics program at Lurie Children's Hospital. Euzebiusz Jamrozik completed a Ph.D. at the Monash Bioethics Centre in Australia and is an incoming postdoctoral fellow in infectious disease ethics at the Wellcome Centre for Ethics and the Humanities and The Ethox Centre, University of Oxford. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.