Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the December 2017 issue of "Beetle Resurrection," by Hannah Nordhaus, discusses the American burying beetle, which eats and breeds on the carcasses of small animals. This fascinating article reminded me of an event some years ago: I live in a wooded area with a large population of sexton, or burying, beetles. And mice. One of the latter found its way under the floorboards of my library, where it died. Oh, the stink! I removed the cover of an unused heating element in the floor, hoping to fish about and find the corpse. No luck. I sat there, wondering what to do, when a huge black-and-orange beetle buzzed past my ear and landed next to the opening, then zipped inside and vanished. It was lunchtime, and I departed. Some time later my wife exclaimed, "You found the mouse!" I certainly did find the mouse, but there it was, the stinky cadaver, right in the middle of the room. The beetle had evidently found it and, unable to bury it in place, had dragged it up and out of the opening, then across the floor, where it must have eventually given up. I wanted to thank the beetle, but it had departed. To this day, I don't know how it entered, or left, my house. DON DILWORTH  . Nordhaus refers to researchers carrying guns for protection against rattlesnakes and feral pigs. I'm horrified. These people are such puffed-up wimps. Here in Australia, families with kids regularly camp in the bush where there are feral pigs, dingoes and several species of snakes more venomous than a rattlesnake. If one were seen carrying a sidearm, he or she would be laughed at, ostracized and probably arrested. BOB TRLIN  Michael Shermer's editorial in support of "Outlawing War" is well said as far as it goes, but how would he advocate enforcing such a law? Legislators usually do not want to pass laws that cannot be enforced. Should whoever passes a law against war have a compliance division that uses force against someone who breaks the law? We have laws against violent crime, but that has not done away with murder or the need for police. WILL OGILVIE  In "Quantum Computing" ["Top 10 Emerging Technologies of 2017"], Dario Gil reports that quantum computers are difficult to build, noting that "a popular design requires superconducting materials that must be kept 100 times colder than outer space." What does that actually mean? I am not a scientist, so I find the concept of having something be a given number of times colder than something else not immediately clear. WILLIAM CROSBY  In "End the Assault on Women's Health" [Science Agenda; September 2017], the editors discuss Republicans' failed plan to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act and argue that it would disproportionately harm women, particularly in the area of reproductive health. We should consider the focus on curtailing reproductive health by such political forces as discrimination propaganda on a scale so massive that no one wants to see it. To test this, try substituting the word "blacks" for "women" and "whites" for "men" in reporting on the subject of this article. Cast that way, bloody battles would erupt in the streets. It's not about reproduction; it's about one group of people controlling the lives and bodies of another. And it's up to us females to change this, not 's editorial board. PRUDIE ORR  In "Your Security Cam Is Watching You" [TechnoFiles; October 2017], David Pogue writes about that uncomfortable feeling people have when they are being observed by video cameras. His wife described it as "creepy," and he calls it "irrational" and "primal." Is it possible this uncomfortable feeling is not so irrational, albeit primal? Could it be our modern-day manifestation of a time when getting a creepy feeling while being watched by a hidden sabertooth tiger had an evolutionary advantage? LOU EISENBERG  . "Sustainable Communities," by Daniel M. Kammen ["Top 10 Emerging Technologies of 2017"], describes the Oakland EcoBlock project as involving retrofitting homes in a neighborhood near the Golden Gate Bridge in California. The nearest bridge is the San Francisco-Oakland Bay Bridge. This article was originally published with the title "Letters" in Scientific American  318, 4, 6-8 (April 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0418-6 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.