Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Science in meter and verse The body quantified: at autopsy, it's always on its back, looks up at me lips puckered tight, as if it would refuse one last kiss. How much the liver weighs, how heavy is the heart, how large the brain. The body, hungerless, all that remains, reminds us we are objects absent souls. I try to animate them, nights alone, when human company seems necessary, the lab surrounding us imaginary as Frankenstein's--any thing's possible. I talk to this one like she's only ill and might pull through, remembering my friend who died of stomach cancer, face so drawn and bloodless she was almost only breath. I was among those thankful for my health who'd visit, but not have to stay. We'd tell her stories as she winced in pain; meanwhile, the clock kept warning us no time was left. How mute the opened thorax, how bereft the empty bowl of pelvis, how I wish our fables, in the end, were more than this. This article was originally published with the title "Pathology" in Scientific American  323, 1, 20 (July 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0720-20 Rafael Campo teaches and practices medicine at Harvard Medical School and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. He has published seven collections of poetry and is also the poetry editor for , the Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.