Read Our Latest Issue A fun physics project from Science Buddies Physics Velocity Acceleration Gravity   Have you ever dropped something and wondered how fast it was moving while falling? (If it was something fragile, you might not have been thinking about this at the time--you were likely too busy trying to grab the object!) We all know that gravity forces an object to fall. But how does this affect how quickly something falls and its impact? For example, did the object move faster right after leaving your hand, or just before hitting the ground? In this science activity, you will explore the relation between time and distance traveled when a moving object is under gravity's constant acceleration.   You know from experience that when you ride a bike downhill, it is easy to get going fast. Gravity is giving you an extra push, so you don't have to do all the work with the pedals. You also know from experience that the longer the hill, the faster you go. The longer you feel that push from gravity, the faster it makes you go. Finally, you know that the the hill, the faster you go. The steepest "hill" you could imagine is not much like a hill at all, but rather a sheer vertical drop--where objects go into free fall and where gravity gives the biggest push of all. You wouldn't want to try that on your bicycle!  In free fall, gravity constantly accelerates an object (increases its velocity)--until it hits terminal velocity. Specifically, gravity increases a falling object's velocity by 9.8 meters per second (m/s) with every passing second. (Whereas velocity is measured in m/s, acceleration is measured in meters per second squared, or m/s .) How does this constant acceleration affect the distance that an object travels over time? In this experiment you will roll a marble down a ramp to find out.     Did the marble travel faster as it went farther down the slope?  When an object is in free fall, gravity increases its velocity by 9.8 m/s with every passing second. So after one second the object would be falling at a velocity of 9.8 m/s. After two seconds the object would be falling at a velocity of 19.6 m/s. After three seconds the object would be falling at a velocity of 29.4 m/s, and so on.  Although this activity was not performed in free fall (the presence of the ramp provides resistance to slow the marble down), the same idea applies here. Gravity should have constantly accelerated the marble as it rolled down the ramp in this activity. This can be seen by comparing the (average) distance between the starting line and the one-second marks to the distance between the one-second marks and the two-second marks. Specifically, the distance between the one- and two-second marks should have been greater than the distance between the starting line and the one-second marks, showing that the marble moved faster the longer it rolled. Depending on the exact conditions of your ramp setup, the distance between the one- and two-second marks may have been about 1.5 to 2.5 times the distance between the starting line and one-second marks.    , from the Physics Classroom  , from the University of California, Berkeley  , from Science Buddies  , from Science Buddies  6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.