Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Intel and other tech companies crack down on "conflict minerals" It is hard to believe that our mundane social media banter could have an impact on the civil war that has been raging in the Democratic Republic of the Congo for more than a decade. The problem is not the content of these messages; it is the devices used to send them. Smartphones, tablets, PCs and other gadgets often have electronic components made from so-called conflict minerals--gold, tantalum, tin and tungsten--taken from specific mines in the D.R.C. that give a cut of their profits to armed groups. Chipmaker Intel used the Consumer Electronic Association's International CES trade show in January to spotlight this problem and declare that its microprocessors are now free of conflict minerals. The company says it has taken steps to have its suppliers--in particular, the smelters that extract metals from mined ore--audited by third-party companies and to certify that they are not cooperating with extortion efforts that funnel money to local warlords. The idea of conflict minerals was relatively obscure four years ago, when the Enough Project, a Washington, D.C.-based nongovernmental organization, brought the issue to Intel's attention. Intel's work has encouraged other companies to examine the sources of their products' raw materials, Enough Project senior policy analyst Sasha Lezhnev said at the International CES. Tech companies do not use as much of these minerals as other industries, such as jewelry makers. Yet gold, tantalum, tungsten and tin play an important role in our gadgets. Like many device manufacturers, Intel relies on highly conductive gold in circuit cards, connectors and semiconductor packaging. The company uses tantalum in some of its capacitors and in the "sputtering" deposition process used to make its semiconductors. Tungsten also plays a limited role in the semiconductor fabrication process. Tin, meanwhile, is a key component in the silver-tin solder that attaches electronic components to their circuit boards. Soon all companies will have to scrutinize their supply chains. In August 2012 the Securities and Exchange Commission began requiring firms to annually disclose the sources of the gold, tin, tungsten and tantalum used in their products. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the National Association of Manufacturers have filed a lawsuit against the sec in response to its new rules, but companies will still have to get their first disclosure reports to the agency by May 31. This article was originally published with the title "War Funding Inside?" in Scientific American  310, 4, 22 (April 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0414-22a Larry Greenemeier is the associate editor of technology for , covering a variety of tech-related topics, including biotech, computers, military tech, nanotech and robots. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.