Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue What's next in brain health and enhancement More than 2,300 years ago Aristotle famously wrote that we are more than the sum of our parts. This nugget of wisdom still resonates today, for at least one simple reason: connections. In the past two decades technology has transformed our understanding of what it means to be truly connected. Easy access to centuries of knowledge, and to like-minded thinkers worldwide, allows new ideas to coalesce at a startling speed. In this of , we take stock of key advances that are altering the way we think about connectivity and the human brain. Through technology, inventions that until recently were considered pure fantasy--a , machines that can , tiny --are now facts of life. Welcome to the future. At a cellular level, technology is revealing how a person's neurons update themselves to generate a . This plasticity--fodder for the marketing campaigns of countless self-help guides--makes us adaptive, creative and intelligent. Yet its mechanisms have long bedeviled scientists. In the first part of the report, "The Neural Code," we explore how emerging techniques are letting us , to and past the boundaries of flesh and bone. A single brain is a computing marvel, but it pales in comparison to the powers of the networked mind. Social ties also permit us to , whether it be through an act as humble as asking a friend for advice or as ambitious as banding together to build a better smartphone. Tapping into human connections has never been easier, and in our report's second section, "The Social Web," we examine online. --but with a digital twist. To make the most of our networked noggins, we still need to address a critical issue: the toll of mental illness, a leading cause of disability worldwide. Here, too, our collective brain trust may at last be making headway. The final chapter, "The Healing Touch," explores advances in modifying the brain, both to and to about what causes dysfunction. The approaches described in this section are . Technology is reshaping the brain sciences as well as brains themselves. By connecting ourselves to computers in numerous ingenious ways, we are pushing the limits of what we can each accomplish. Aristotle would be proud--or at least astounded. -- This article was originally published with the title "The Future of the Brain" in SA Mind 25, 6, 28-29 (November 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind1114-28 November 1, 2014  --  Sandra Upson November 1, 2014  --  Rajesh P. N. Rao and Andrea Stocco November 1, 2014  --  Larry Greenemeier November 1, 2014  --  Elizabeth Svoboda November 1, 2014  --  Roni Jacobson November 1, 2014  --  Marom Bikson and Peter Toshev Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.