Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue An experimental twist on the Schrodinger's cat paradox could overturn cherished assumptions in metaphysics Quantum researchers seem to have more theories than they know what to do with. Of the handful of options, take, for example, the many-worlds view, which posits that when a quantum observation is made, reality splits into parallel universes, each representing all potential outcomes. Or there is the relatively new QBism camp, members of which argue that quantum mechanics is subjective to the individuals making predictions about how they will measure an experiment. On top of these conflicting theories, any new experimental data invariably support one possible explanation and contradict another. What to make of this confounding research situation? Where some see an impasse, others see opportunity. At the very end of this issue's cover story, Michele Reilly, co-founder of a quantum computing company based in New York City, tells our reporter that such confusion opens the door for novel experiments, of both the theoretical variety and the physical (see " "). If that's not a pure emblem of the scientific method, then I don't know what is. Elsewhere in this issue, Anil Ananthaswamy examines the latest estimates of alien life in the universe--estimates that ride on 18th-century statistics (see " "). And Alexandra Witze gives a dazzling overview of NASA's latest rover project: Perseverance (see " "). If any field needed the gumption to keep going for the long haul, it's space and physics. Enjoy! This article was originally published with the title "The Most Confused of the Scientific Branches" in SA Space & Physics 3, 5,  (October 2020) Andrea Gawrylewski is the collections editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.