Read Our Latest Issue A massive overflow from a dam in 2002 carved a channel several meters deep into the bedrock in just days A geologic scar left by a catastrophic Texas flood in 2002 is providing an unexpected scientific benefit. A new study demonstrates how researchers can use a channel carved by floodwaters pouring over the dam of a flooded reservoir as a laboratory to test scientific theories of how such canyons are formed. The research could help to inform the hydrological histories of Earth and Mars by indicating the kind of imprints large, sudden floods leave on a planet's surface.  The storm that struck central Texas eight years ago wreaked havoc on the region, which President George W. Bush declared a disaster area. , according to a report from the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS). At Canyon Lake, a reservoir north of San Antonio, water rushed over the dam's spillway, pouring into the valley below. Within days a 50-meter-wide channel now known as the Canyon Lake Gorge had been carved into the soil and bedrock, drastically transforming the landscape on a short timescale.  Thanks to the recent nature of the event, along with USGS monitoring, extensive topographic information and eyewitness reports, researchers can explore the geologic aftermath of a large flood whose discharge and duration are well constrained. That is a rare if not unprecedented opportunity, says California Institute of Technology geologist , a co-author of describing the gorge's formation. ( is part of Nature Publishing Group.)  He became interested in the gorge while studying canyon formation on Earth and Mars during a 2008-2009 postdoctoral fellowship at the University of Texas at Austin, about 100 kilometers away. Along with his colleague , a geographer at Texas State University-San Marcos, Lamb found that the landscape below Canyon Lake had been remodeled in just three days or so, during which hundreds of thousands of cubic meters of rock and sediment were flushed downstream.  Mars's surface is dotted with deltas, floodplains and gullies that indicate a rich hydrological history for the Red Planet, even though conditions today preclude the appearance of liquid water there. Some researchers believe that and that of standing water, which would bode well for the past development of life on the planet, but others have come to believe that to short-lived bursts of rainfall or catastrophic flooding.  Most large floods on Earth, Lamb notes, occur in rivers or other areas where water has been carving its way through the land over long timescales. The uniqueness of the Texas site is that the valley below the dam had historically been essentially dry land, making the changes attributable to the 2002 flood plainly visible. , a hydrologist, planetary scientist and geologist at the University of Arizona in Tucson, says that even with the ubiquity of sensing and imaging data, and despite the heavy rains endemic to Texas, it may be a while before researchers are able to observe the fresh carving of another brand-new channel.  With the amount of flood information available, Lamb says, Canyon Lake Gorge can provide a field experiment to test theories of how water flows form channels and canyons. That would come in handy for a place like Mars, where ancient channels are all that remain; planetary scientists must infer the Red Planet's hydrologic history from the way water shaped the surface. "It's important to reaffirm these reconstructions to understand the geologic history of Earth as well as Mars," Lamb says.  The 2002 Texas flood was powerful, plucking meter-size limestone boulders out of the bedrock and carrying them away to leave a channel that in places exceeds 12 meters in depth. It still does not hold a candle to the ancient megafloods that shaped Earth and Mars, Baker notes, but it is closer than most lab research comes to replicating those conditions. "An experiment like this one, which is intermediate between what we can do in a lab and what's on Mars, is relevant because it shows us how these physical principles interact to create outcomes that we can see," he says. John Matson is a former reporter and editor for who has written extensively about astronomy and physics. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.