Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Grasses and low vegetation on the defrosting, drying tundra are igniting and burning up. A fire has sparked in western Greenland, an odd occurrence for an island known more for ice than fire. in the summer to access Greenland's ice sheet and western glaciers. The largest fire has burned roughly 3,000 acres and sent smoke spiraling a mile into the sky, prompting hunting and hiking closures in the area, according to . I quickly made an overview of the MODIS active fires since 2000 over Greenland ifo confidence level. Many low confidence fires in the past Data for Greenland fires is hard to come by, but there is some context for fires in other parts of the northern tier of the world. The boreal forest sprawls across Canada, Russia, Alaska and northern Europe, and provides a longer-term record for researchers to dig into. That record shows that the boreal forest is burning at a rate . , a remote sensing expert at Delft University of Technology in the Netherlands, said there is evidence of fires burning in Greenland over the past 17 years of MODIS satellite records kept by NASA. But because of how NASA's algorithms interpret the satellite data, there's low confidence that every fire on the map actually occurred. , an ice sheet researcher with the Geologic Survey of Denmark and Greenland, said he observed a lightning-sparked fire in the late 1990s, but that otherwise, fires are rare. Looking at the MODIS record, he said one of the only other high confidence fires was actually a trash burn in 2013, though other satellites . To wrap up: wildfires have occurred in the past over Greenland but 2017 is exceptional in number of active fire detections by MODIS Box also noted that temperatures in the area rose in late July just before the fire was first observed, spiking to above 53degF (12degC) on July 27. While not exactly balmy, the temperature rise may have helped the blazes to spread. , a French newspaper, there's no precedent for a fire this size in the European Union's forest fire system. Looking beyond the satellite record for context specific to Greenland is all but impossible as there are basically no records to refer to. tweeted. that if melted, would be enough to raise sea levels 20 feet. . as the planet warms and northern forest fires become more common. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.