Read Our Latest Issue Killer whales appear to be splitting into several separate species, perhaps because cultural differences among populations are driving them apart Just offshore from the pebble beaches of Bere Point on Malcolm Island, British Columbia, the rocks gently in the waters of the Queen Charlotte Strait. The sun has burned off most of the morning mist, save for a thin layer that still shrouds the tips of the island's cedars, firs and spruces. I watch from the boat as three killer whale brothers named Cracroft, Plumper and Kaikash gently scrape their bodies against the small, smooth stones in the shallows off the bow. The brothers have already spent the better part of an hour here absorbed in this activity. Soon they will leave to hunt for salmon or look for mates. Exactly why the creatures engage in this scraping behavior, known as beach rubbing, is uncertain. Most experts assume that it aids in sloughing off dead skin and dislodging external parasites, but it might also be for pleasure. Whatever the motivation behind it, beach rubbing, though rarely observed in other cetaceans--the group that includes whales, dolphins and porpoises--is commonplace here. It is part of the distinctive cultural fabric of the northern resident killer whales, a community that claims the waters around northern Vancouver Island as home during the summer months. (Despite their name, killer whales are actually large dolphins.) This is a preview. Make a selection below to access this issue.Already have access? . Having trouble accessing this article? Please visit our page for more information Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.