Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor: The Science of God and Left & Right As a retired farmer, I know that the information in "Grassoline at the Pump," by George W. Huber and Bruce E. Dale, about agricultural residues is false in a most dangerous way. There is NO extra residue from the corn harvest. Sure, you can take it away and use it to create fuel. But that residue is desperately needed right where it fell, to renew the soil. All of it and more are needed to sustain our already low organic matter levels created by years of plowing and other unsustainable agricultural practices. Soil can and does "die," and then it is unable to produce food. Energy creation is important, but so is our ability to feed the world.  THE AUTHORS REPLY: Your July cover story could not be timelier as oil prices remain volatile. The types of fuels envisioned by "Grassoline" have great potential for aircraft usage. Several U.S. carriers, including Continental Airlines, have conducted successful test flights using alternative fuels, but significant hurdles remain before these can be certified for commercial use. It is critical that we support further research and development for alternative jet fuels.  As an admirer of the Skeptic column, I find it unfortunate that Michael Shermer's opus 100, " ," contains what I believe is a serious fault. Shermer cites negative results of tests of the power of prayer to heal. What if God simply declines to cooperate with our tests of His existence? Shermer asks what existed before our universe began. Why should we assume that God did not exist before our universe or before all universes? I have never seen a scientific test that can prove or disprove God's existence. In scientific terms, Shermer is correct; the null hypothesis is no argument. In religious terms, faith is everything. In my opinion, separation of church and science is as important as separation of church and state. Scientists who want to prove scientifically that God does not act in our lives play into the hands of religious spokespeople who want to prove that God controls our lives.  In " ," Peter F. MacNeilage, Lesley J. Rogers and Giorgio Vallortigara mention Rogers's experiments involving keeping a hen's eggs in darkness so the right eye is not stimulated and consequently the left hemisphere does not develop normally. In humans information from the left visual field of each eye is processed in the right hemisphere, and vice versa. Is this not the case with chickens, or does this fact cast doubt on Rogers's conclusions?  THE AUTHORS REPLY: " ," by Gary Stix, delves into the psychology of the marketplace, which makes for an interesting article. But by focusing on the behavior of small individual investors, it completely misses the largest contributions to the bubble. Propping up real estate with artificially low interest rates and bogus appraisals, institutionalized accounting fraud within corporate America, easy rating of securities as "AAA,"  highly leveraged derivatives gambling, swaps in excess of target companies' net worth followed by selling those targets short, suspect trading programs such as PRIMEX, and a deliberately paralyzed regulatory community all contributed more to the fleecing of workers' 401Ks than the herd mentality. Fraudsters were merely taking advantage of those human traits.  Benoit Mandelbrot has been very vocal on the faulty assumptions that are regularly employed in economics. I contend, however, that it is actually the false belief in determinism that is at fault. And the illusion of predictability afforded by the deterministic view is every bit as potent as the money illusion.  This article was originally published with the title "Keys to Copenhagen" in Scientific American  301, 5, 32 (November 2009) 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.