Read Our Latest Issue A cybersecurity science activity Technology Cybersecurity Internet safety Privacy Do you have your own email or other online account? If so, you probably use a password to log in. How did you pick your password? Is it something that might be easy for someone else to guess, like the name of your pet? This fun activity will teach you about password security and how to pick a good password. Imagine a suitcase lock with three number wheels on it. Each wheel contains digits zero through nine, so you can pick any three-digit number as the combination. Because each wheel has 10 digits, there are 10 X 10 X 10 = 1,000, or 10 , possible combinations. If you add a fourth wheel, now there are 10 X 10 X 10 X 10 = 10,000, or 10 , possible combinations. What if you used the letters A-Z instead of numbers zero through nine for the three-wheel lock? Then there would be 26 characters for each wheel, so there would be 26 X 26 X 26 = 17,576, or 26 , possible combinations. Adding more digits, or more characters per digit, greatly increases the number of possible combinations. This makes it very difficult for a human to guess the combination. However, computers can try to guess passwords much faster than a human can guess a physical lock combination. A fast computer can try to guess of passwords per second. That is why passwords should usually be long--at least eight digits--and made up of different types of characters including numbers, symbols and upper and lowercase letters. A short password made only of lowercase letters might be very easy for a computer to guess. This activity will demonstrate how shorter passwords made up of fewer types of characters are easier to guess than longer passwords with more characters. Since humans will be doing the guessing, the passwords will be very short (just one or two digits), but remember that real-life passwords should be much longer. Also note that there are other general password safety rules that you should follow. Just because a password is long and mixes letters and numbers does not mean it won't be easy to guess. For example, your name followed by your birthday could be easy for someone who knows you to guess. There are also many commonly used passwords like "password", "qwerty" or "123456789" that you should avoid. You should find that passwords with fewer total possibilities are easier to guess than those with more possibilities. For example, in the first matchup where one person thinks of a number zero to nine and the other person thinks of a letter A to Z, the person with a number zero to nine will (but not always) "lose" the duel. Depending on how quickly you guess back and forth, each duel should take less than a minute. Because of the random nature of guessing, it is important that you do enough duels to see this trend, which is why we suggest doing at least 10 of each type of duel. If you only do a couple duels, there is a higher chance that one person will "get lucky" and guess the other person's password, even if that person has the more difficult password type (as analogy, think about flipping a coin: if you only flip a coin twice, there is a relatively high chance that you will get two heads or two tails. However, if you flip a coin 1,000 times, your results should be very close to 50:50). You should find that very short (one or two digit) passwords work best with this activity. Longer passwords (three digits or more) have so many possibilities that they generally take a very long time for a human to guess.  , from Science Buddies  , from Science Buddies  , from Scientific American  , from Scientific American  , from Science Buddies Ben Finio is a senior staff scientist at Science Buddies and a lecturer at the Cornell University Sibley School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Follow him on Twitter @BenFinio. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.