Read Our Latest Issue A visual science project from Science Buddies Biology Physiology Senses Vision Perception Did you know that you have a blind spot in each of your eyes? This doesn't mean you see a constant black spot in your field of vision. Normally you don't notice these blind spots at all. There are, however, some ways you can make these blind spots come to light, so to speak! This activity will show you how to find them. Our eyes are complex organs that allow us to detect visual objects, colors, motion and other things happening around us. To be able to see, however, we need light. Usually what we see is light that reflects off of objects and then enters our eyes through the pupil (the pupil is the opening in the middle of the front of the eye). How much light gets into the eye is controlled by the iris, which is the colored part around the pupil that can contract and expand to open and close the pupil. Inside the eye the light lands on the retina at the back of the eye, which is a light-sensitive layer of tissue. The retina has two types of light-sensing cells: rods and cones. Rods provide black-and-white vision in dim light whereas the cones are responsible for color vision. When light hits the rod and cone cells, nerve impulses are triggered and sent to the brain through the optic nerve. In humans and most vertebrates the optic nerve fibers pass through the retina and out of the back of the eyeball. The area where the bundled nerve fibers pass through the retina does not contain any light sensitive cells. This means we don't see light that hits this exact spot. Although we technically cannot see this light, our brain can usually fill in the information that we are missing based on the other things around the blind spot. This is the reason why we don't usually notice our blind spots. In this activity, however, you will see how under certain circumstances your blind spot can seem to make things disappear. Are you ready to make your blind spot visible?   Did you find your blind spot? When looking at the paper rectangle with both eyes you probably always saw both shapes on each side of the paper--even when you moved your arm closer to your body. When you looked with only your right eye directly at the left shape, however, you should have noticed that at some point the right shape disappeared as you moved the paper closer to your face. At this position the shape just happened to be in your blind spot. This blind spot is there because the optic nerve fibers pass through the back of your retina inside your eye. Where the nerve passes through there are no cells receiving light. At this tiny spot, which is approximately the size of a pinhead, you are technically blind. You know that you have such a blind spot in both of your eyes because you should have seen the same thing happen when you looked at the right shape with your left eye. This time the left shape should have disappeared. If you did the extra activity with the straight line across the card, you should have noticed that the shape still disappeared but you still saw a continuous straight line all the way to the edge of the paper. This is a great example of how your brain tries to fill in the blanks of the blind spot. Your brain noticed the straight line in the area surrounding your blind spot--and just continued the line even though it technically didn't detect it there. The brain, however, couldn't notice the shape because it was fully inside the blind spot. As a result the shape disappeared, but the straight line was still visible.  , from Ducksters  , from Healthline  , from Science Daily  , from  , from Science Buddies 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.