Read Our Latest Issue "When certain elementary particles move through a magnetic
field, they are deflected in a manner that suggests they have
the properties of little magnets. In the classical world, a
charged, spinning object has magnetic properties that are very
much like those exhibited by these elementary particles.
Physicists love analogies, so they described the elementary
particles too in terms of their 'spin.' "Unfortunately, the analogy breaks down, and we have come to
realize that it is misleading to conjure up an image of the
electron as a small spinning object. Instead we have learned
simply to accept the observed fact that the electron is
deflected by magnetic fields. If one insists on the image of a
spinning object, then real paradoxes arise; unlike a tossed
softball, for instance, the spin of an electron never changes,
and it has only two possible orientations. In addition, the very
notion that electrons and protons are solid 'objects' that can
'rotate' in space is itself difficult to sustain, given what we
know about the rules of quantum mechanics. The term 'spin,'
however, still remains." Kurt T. Bachmann
of Birmingham-Southern College adds some historical background
and other details: "Starting in the 1920s, Otto Stern and Walther Gerlach of the
University of Hamburg in Germany conducted a series of important
atomic beam experiments. Knowing that all moving charges produce
magnetic fields, they proposed to measure the magnetic fields
produced by the electrons orbiting nuclei in atoms. Much to
their surprise, however, the two physicists found that electrons
themselves act as if they are spinning very rapidly, producing
tiny magnetic fields independent of those from their orbital
motions. Soon the terminology 'spin' was used to describe this
apparent rotation of subatomic particles. "Spin is a bizarre physical quantity. It is analogous to the
spin of a planet in that it gives a particle angular momentum
and a tiny magnetic field called a magnetic moment. Based on the
known sizes of subatomic particles, however, the surfaces of
charged particles would have to be moving faster than the speed
of light in order to produce the measured magnetic moments.
Furthermore, spin is quantized, meaning that only certain
discrete spins are allowed. This situation creates all sorts of
complications that make spin one of the more challenging aspects
of quantum mechanics. "In a broader sense, spin is an essential property influencing
the ordering of electrons and nuclei in atoms and molecules,
giving it great physical significance in chemistry and
solid-state physics. Spin is likewise an essential consideration
in all interactions among subatomic particles, whether in
high-energy particle beams, low-temperature fluids or the
tenuous flow of particles from the sun known as the solar wind.
Indeed, many if not most physical processes, ranging from the
smallest nuclear scales to the largest astrophysical distances,
depend greatly on interactions of subatomic particles and the
spins of those particles." Victor J.
Stenger, professor of physics at the University of Hawaii at
Manoa, offers another, more technical perspective: "Spin is the total angular momentum, or angular
momentum, of a body. The spins of elementary particles are
analogous to the spins of macroscopic bodies. In fact, the spin
of a planet is the sum of the spins and the orbital angular
momenta of all its elementary particles. So are the spins of
other composite objects such as atoms, atomic nuclei and protons
(which are made of quarks). "In classical physics, angular momentum is a continuous
variable. In quantum mechanics, angular momenta are discrete,
quantized in units of Planck's constant divided by 4 pi. Niels
Bohr proposed that angular momentum is quantized in 1913 and
used this to explain the line spectrum of hydrogen. "At our current level of understanding, the elementary particles
are quarks, leptons (such as the electron) and bosons (such as
the photon). These particles are all imagined as pointlike, so
you might wonder how they can have spins. A simple answer might
be, perhaps they are composite, too. But deep theoretical
reasons having to do with the rotational symmetry of nature lead
to the existence of spins for elementary objects and to their
quantization. Of particular significance is the difference
between fermions, particles that, like the electron, have
half-integer spins (half-integer multiples of Planck's constant
divided by 2 pi), and bosons, particles that have integer spins.
Fermions obey the Pauli exclusion principle, which states that
two identical fermions cannot exist in the same state; without
the Pauli exclusion principle, chemistry would have no Periodic
Table. Bosons, on the other hand, tend to congregate in the same
state, leading to phenomena such as superconductivity and
Bose-Einstein condensation. "Spin has served as the prototype for other, even more abstract
notions that seem to have the mathematical properties of angular
momentum but do not have a simple classical analogue. For
example, isotopic spin is used in nuclear physics to represent
the two states of a 'nucleon,' the proton and neutron.
Similarly, quarks are paired as isospin 'up' and 'down,' which
are the names given to the two quarks that make up ordinary
matter. The rotational symmetry of space and time is generalized
to include symmetries in more abstract 'inner' dimensions, with
the result that much of the complex structure of the microworld
can be seen as resulting from symmetry breaking, connecting
profoundly to ideas describing the spontaneous formation of
structure in the macroworld. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.