Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue It's the first documentation of insects incorporating plastic trash into nests Bowerbirds love discarded plastic. The males use colorful pieces to woo mates in an elaborate courtyard outside their nests. New research shows that another animal is putting our plastic waste to good use: two species of city-living bee have started building bits of plastic into their nests. The bees that J. Scott MacIvor, an ecologist at York University, studies aren't social and don't build hives. They construct small nests in plant stems, tree holes and fence posts. To examine their nest-building habits in detail, MacIvor enlisted Toronto citizen scientists in the spring of 2012 to help place artificial nest boxes throughout the city. When he checked them that fall, he found something unexpected: --one of the most commonly managed bees in the world--had incorporated pieces of plastic shopping bags into its nests in addition to the usual leaves. And , which typically seals the cells of its nest with plant and tree resins, had used plastic-based sealants, including caulk. The findings, published in the journal , constitute the first scientific documentation of insects building nests with plastic. Bees routinely live inside plastic objects, such as straws, "but to actively gather plastic is novel," says John Ascher, a researcher at the American Museum of Natural History in New York City. The study offers another example of how animals adapt to human-dominated environments. "There will always be those that have adaptive traits or enough flexibility in their behavior to persist in a disturbed landscape," MacIvor says. At least we hope so. This article was originally published with the title "Bee Resourceful" in Scientific American  310, 6, 26 (June 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0614-26a Jason G. Goldman is a science journalist based in Los Angeles. He has written about animal behavior, wildlife biology, conservation, and ecology for , magazine, the , the , the BBC, magazine, and elsewhere. He contributes to 's "60-Second Science" podcast, and is co-editor of (Yale University Press). He enjoys sharing his wildlife knowledge on television and on the radio, and often speaks to the public about wildlife and science communication. June 1, 2014  --  THE EDITORS Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.