Read Our Latest Issue Posts made by the @realDonaldTrump account demonstrate how the president's linguistic style changed as he advanced toward the White House In recent years, Jack Grieve of the department of English and linguistics at the University of Birmingham in England has embraced Twitter as a bountiful lode for looking at language-use patterns. One of his projects examined the regional popularity of profanity in the U.S. ("crap" is big in the center of the country; "f--" turns up more on the coasts). he conducted looked for new word usages spreading on American social media ("baeless" for single, for example, and "senpai" for elder or expert). Now Grieve and his linguist colleague Isobelle Clarke have turned their analytic expertise to President Donald Trump's Twitter account. A study shows how the linguistic style of Trump's 21,739 tweets from mid-2009 to early 2018 (excluding retweets) morphed as his strategy for reaching multitudes of followers changed. ("Linguistic style" here refers to the form of the text, not its meaning.) The researchers categorized the different styles by scrutinizing the tweets' grammatical structure. Some of them were merely conversational. Others dispensed advice or campaign rhetoric or simply signaled Trump's engagement on a particular issue. One tweet style transmuted into another--and then sometimes back--as Trump progressed from his role as peddler of a to improbable presidential primary candidate to Republican nominee--and then to occupier of the Oval Office. (Such "style shifting"--how an individual's language varies from one situation to another--is a subdiscipline in linguistics.) asked Grieve about his trek through the Trump tweet corpus and the richness of Twitter as a source for linguists. [ .] Back in 2017 there was a lot of talk about whether Trump wrote a specific tweet that might have amounted to an admission of obstructing justice. But his lawyer [at the time], John Dowd, then took credit for it. We do research on both social media language and authorship analysis, so we decided to . We found it was relatively unusual in its style, although we couldn't rule out the possibility that Trump had written it. After that study, we decided to look at stylistic variation on [his Twitter] account more generally--and especially to track changes in style over time. The account was so important during the election and such a point of contention--we thought this was an area where linguistic analysis could be informative. In general, when most people look at language, they focus on what is said. But looking at the structure of language--how something is said--is what linguists do. We thought that perspective was largely missing from the discussion--and important. Basically, we downloaded all the tweets that were posted on the account, removed the retweets, automatically identified a wide range of grammatical features found in each tweet (such as various parts of speech) and then conducted a statistical analysis to extract dimensions of linguistic variation, based on which features tended to occur together in tweets. We then interpreted these dimensions stylistically and plotted them over time to understand how the style of the account changed. Our main takeaway was that Trump's Twitter account wasn't just a bunch of random attacks, as is sometimes claimed by the media. Rather we found a lot of stylistic variation--and crucially, we found this variation was, on the whole, fairly systematic over time: the style of tweets changed in clear ways, depending on what was happening in the campaign. For example, we found that a more informal and conversational style was used during the Republican primaries, compared with the general election. I think, to a large extent, we knew that was going on. The amount of free media coverage the account generated during the campaign is well documented. We also know it was a big part of how Trump and his campaign chose to communicate with the public. And we know they won. So our aim was to describe how they used Twitter from a linguistic perspective--not to understand it was effective but to understand it was effective. And I think we show there was an underlying strategy--that they were shifting the styles of their tweets to achieve certain communicative goals. We found that Trump and his team employed an increasingly disengaged style over the course of the campaign--essentially presenting their opinions as facts and ignoring alternative viewpoints. This style of communication became especially common after the tape was released and may have helped minimize the damage from that scandal. Not with any certainty. But we hypothesized that there was a change in his outlook in February 2015--just as his last season of was wrapping up--based on sharp changes in style at that time. In general, all the major stylistic inflection points we identified correspond to major events in the Trump time line. But this one, we couldn't explain. And right around that time, he was hinting he would run in his tweets--and we know he formed his exploratory committee not long after. So based on these considerations, we proposed that this might be when he personally decided to run. Social media is becoming an increasingly important force in society. A lot of news is driven by online communication, and so there is a need for linguistic analysis. But unlike lots of other areas, everyone thinks they're a language expert--including journalists and data scientists. This has really led to an explosion of amateur linguistics, in my opinion. For example, there are lots of people out there who claim they can distinguish tweets written by Trump from tweets written by his surrogates, but they lack any reliable baseline for Trump's style on social media. These kinds of issues are obvious to linguists. And of course, we can do much more detailed, accurate and objective analyses. I hope, over the next few years, we'll see a rise in investigative linguistic research. I think that's really important, and my hope is that this paper will encourage more linguists to tackle these types of problems. Gary Stix is a senior editor at . He writes the blog Talking Back at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.