Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue "This idea might seem obvious, but mathematics is about establishing concepts with absolute certainty," write Toby S. Cubitt, David Perez-Garcia and Michael Wolf in this issue's cover story, "The Unsolvable Problem." In their feature, they describe a mathematical odyssey to demonstrate the "undecidability"--that is, the unsolvable nature--of a certain problem in quantum physics. The journey takes them on a three-year "grand adventure," from a small town deep in the Austrian Alps into a world of complicated mathematics. The result was a 146-page proof and publication in the journal . Several years ago a few different trips of my own--to Moscow, Doha (Qatar), Beijing and others--inspired the series "State of the World's Science." At the time, I was struck by how other countries looked to science and invested in it, with a variety of national goals. I decided that , with 14 translated editions, should make a point of taking an annual look at this global enterprise. In this year's special report, headed by senior editor Clara Moskowitz, we are looking at the challenges of research today. In "Make Research Reproducible," Shannon Palus examines the problem of reproducibility: a large percentage of scientific papers cannot be replicated by other researchers. The reasons can include multiple factors, such as imprecise methods, bad reagents and flaws in data collection. John P. A. Ioannidis writes about the ways we can "Rethink Funding," from not spending enough to properly financing the work in the first place to problems with the reward systems for individuals. He also outlines potential solutions. In "Help Young Scientists," Rebecca Boyle discusses the difficulties faced by individuals at the start of their career. Rounding out the section, in "Break Down Silos," Graham A. J. Worthy and Cherie L. Yestrebsky focus on interdisciplinary teamwork. Elsewhere in the issue, you can discover how engineered forms of the rabies virus have provided new insights into the brain's inner workings; ponder a controversial theory that holds that the best early warnings of an earthquake could appear 180 miles above the ground; learn about new ways to evacuate in the event of a hurricane; and consider the all too disturbing reality of fake videos. As always, we hope that you enjoy making your way through the feature articles in this edition. We welcome your comments. This article was originally published with the title "Proof of the Impossible?" in Scientific American  319, 4, 4 (October 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1018-4 Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.