Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The latest science book recommendations from our editors For the first century of its existence, was primarily a listing of the latest inventions and patents. But in 1948, the magazine was sold and the new owners wanted to reimagine the publication's mission, hoping to make it more timely and authoritative. As part of this rebranding, they hired freelance artist Stanley Meltzoff to illustrate their covers. A graduate of the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University, Meltzoff had worked as an art director and journalist for an army newspaper during World War II. Afterward he made images for advertising agencies in Manhattan and paperback book covers. His work for , a total of 65 covers, launched his career as a magazine illustrator, and he went on to create images for and . Meltzoff died in 2006 at age 89. Meltzoff's paintings, memorialized in this mesmerizing collection, were all done by hand, mostly as oil on board or canvas. He became an avid scuba diver and painted fish and undersea life, which became his most famous artworks. In the autobiography that accompanies the images, Meltzoff adamantly calls himself simply a "picture maker," believing that the practical, photorealistic nature of his work did not qualify as the higher-minded creativity of an "artist." But to examine the images in this collection, it's hard not to feel that he was mistaken. This article was originally published with the title "Recommended" in Scientific American  323, 1, 68 (July 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0720-68 Andrea Gawrylewski is the collections editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.