Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue How a Denver company changed its fleet to help save money, and the planet Metro Taxi Inspired by lower operating costs and consumer enthusiasm, metro taxi in denver is switching its entire fleet of 420 cars to hybrid vehicles. It has already replaced 37 standard sedans--mostly Ford Crown Victorias, rated at 19 miles per gallon by the Environmental Protection Agency--with the Toyota Prius, rated at 46 mpg. After the fleet is fully converted, which will take up to eight years, the company says it will save 2.6 million gallons of gasoline annually, or $5.2 million at $2 a gallon. The change has created some public buzz, too. "A lot of customers now call specifically for the Prius," says Brian Horvath, fleet manager. "They like the comfort and the quietness and the whole green idea." Metro Taxi has also replaced the old furnaces at its large maintenance shop with two units made by Clean Burn in Leola, Pa., which consume used motor oil from the many oil changes. "We just drain it from the vehicle and pump it into a storage tank," Horvath says. "We're no longer paying disposal fees" or buying hundreds of gallons of heating fuel a month during the winter. This article was originally published with the title "Driven to Save" in SA Special Editions 19, 2s, 80 (June 2009) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanearth0609-80 Mark Fischetti is a senior editor at . He covers all aspects of sustainability. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.