Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue To outsiders, the field of physics may seem like a neat and tidy affair. What fundamental discoveries are left to make, right? Wrong. In fact, physicists are pushing into the extreme ends of the universe as we know it--from invisible particles and colliding massive black holes to the most crushing gravitational forces ever detected and spooky quantum entanglement. The 14-billion-year-old tale of our universe is far from over. Innovative projects are hunting the smallest units of matter. Scientists at CERN's Large Hadron Collider have set their sights on "virtual" particles that seem to . And soon the largest experiment of its kind will beam minuscule neutrinos underground from Illinois to South Dakota, with luck demonstrating how these mysterious particles buck the . On the larger scales of physics, the detection in 2015 of two black holes crashing together some 1.3 billion light-years away launched a wave of discovery, and new data are . Meanwhile the debate rages over whether invisible particles indeed make up the dark matter that fills the entire universe or whether we need to revise what we know about . Thanks to new gravitational-wave detectors, we are finally getting a clearer picture of some of the densest places in existence; the core of . An alternative theory posits that rather than arising from dead stars, the earliest . Quantum theory continues to captivate; theorists are trying to get their head around the ramifications of a multiverse--that is, do infinite worlds coexist in a statistical " ," or do too many universes violate the laws of physics entirely? The next phase of quantum research will attempt to put living organisms into superposition, probing for . Perhaps more than any other field, physics requires a churning of old ideas, either modulating them to explain the latest observations or scrapping them altogether. Much of its work is done in the human mind as , or "thought experiments," as Albert Einstein called them. For this reason, , there is a fine, often blurry line between scientific intuition and fantasy. But there seems to be no finish line of discovery, even on the distant horizon. This article was originally published with the title "Physics at the Limits" in SA Special Editions 28, 2s, 1 (April 2019) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanphysics0419-1 Andrea Gawrylewski is the collections editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.