Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Device's shape and lithium batteries can make it act "like a small rocket" An electronic cigarette  exploded in the face of a man in Albany, New York, recently, leaving him with a hole his tongue and burns on his hand, . The explosion also knocked out several of the man's teeth. But this is far from the first injury caused by an exploding e-cigarette, or e-cig. The battery-powered devices work by heating a liquid, which typically contains nicotine as well as other chemicals, into a vapor that a user then inhales. But the that heats the liquid within an e-cig poses a big safety risk: The batteries have the potential to explode, Dr. Michael Siegel, a tobacco researcher and professor of community health sciences at the Boston University School of Public Health, told Live Science recently. [ ] Last month, a teen in New York City was hospitalized after an e-cig exploded while he was testing it out in a store, . The explosion damaged both of the teen's eyes. And in November 2015, an e-cig explosion left a Tennessee man potentially paralyzed, . The explosion fractured the man's vertebrae and bones in his face, and knocked out a tooth. In July 2015, a young man in Alabama was airlifted to a hospital and placed on a ventilator after an e-cig blew up in his face. In addition to on his face and chest, the explosion left the young man with a hole in the roof of his mouth that made it difficult for him to eat, . And earlier last year, a man's exploding e-cig was powerful enough to shatter glass in the Southern California store he was in, . After the blast, the man was rushed to the University of California San Diego Burn Center for treatment. In a 2014 report, the U.S. Fire Administration examined . Lithium-ion batteries in other devices such as cellphones and laptops have also been known to cause fires, the report said. But the design of e-cigs--with their cylindrical shape, and the weakest structural point at their ends--makes these devices more likely than others to explode if the battery fails, according to the report. The fires start in the battery. While all batteries contain electrolyte solutions (this is an essential part of ), the solutions used in lithium-ion batteries are different from those in regular batteries because they are flammable, the report said. In a lithium-ion battery, the solution can become overheated, reach its boiling point and then rapidly expand and catch fire, causing the battery to explode, according to the report. Laptops and other devices have rigid plastic cases that prevent an exploding battery from doing much damage. But in an e-cig, the explosion can lead the cylindrical container of the device to explode, too, causing the device to "be propelled across the room like a bullet or small rocket," the report said. May 1, 2014  --  Dina Fine Maron April 24, 2014  --  Dina Fine Maron and Larry Greenemeier July 22, 2013  --  Laura Newman August 10, 2009  --  Lynne Peeples Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.