Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Understanding these sinks and how they function is critical for calculating the world's carbon budget Deserts across the globe may contain some of the world's "missing" carbon sinks -- land masses scientists had not previously identified that absorb carbon from the atmosphere, according to researchers at China's Lanzhou University. in the journal Nature Geoscience found that closed, or , basins in deserts -- areas into which water flows but doesn't flow out -- are significant storehouses of carbon, but their ability to act as carbon sinks may diminish as the globe warms. for scientists to calculate the world's -- the estimate showing how much countries can pollute before global warming exceeds the level that climate scientists consider dangerous -- 2degC (3.6degF). , a paleoclimatologist at Lanzhou University, said there is a lot of uncertainty about how carbon sinks work, and scientists can only create an accurate carbon budget if they study each kind more thoroughly. of human carbon emissions stay in the atmosphere, about 30 percent is absorbed by the world's oceans, and the rest is absorbed by carbon sinks on land, according to the National Center for Atmospheric Research. in Kazakhstan. In the U.S., the in Utah, Nevada and Oregon is an endorheic basin. Streams and rivers flow into the basins, but instead of flowing out, they disappear underground or simply evaporate. because it's a major factor in calculating how quickly atmospheric carbon will accumulate in the atmosphere. As less carbon is absorbed by the land and oceans, more remains in the atmosphere. the 400 ppm mark last September and it's to pass 450 ppm within about two decades. 6,000 years ago, Yu's team estimated how much carbon endorheic basins store each year. Today, at a time when the earth , the basins store much less carbon, suggesting that climate change may be affecting the ability of arid regions to act as carbon sinks, Yu said. Yu estimated that closed basins pack away about 152 million metric tons of carbon each year worldwide today, compared to 211 million metric tons 6,000 year ago. , a U.S. Forest Service landscape ecologist studying the carbon cycle and an ecology professor at North Carolina State University who is unaffiliated with the research. The amount of carbon in the soil and the ability for soil to act as a carbon sink is expected to diminish as temperatures rise. The mechanisms for that may be different from place to place, but the effect could be significant. of soil carbon to the atmosphere through the middle of the century. The lost soil carbon is expected to be equivalent of 12 to 17 percent of total human carbon emissions through 2050. June 22, 2001  --  Harald Franzen December 8, 2009  --  David Biello May 19, 2017  --  Scott Waldman and ClimateWire October 28, 2016  --  Ramin Skibba and Nature magazine Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.