Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Investigating the potential danger to those who use tobacco products or e-cigarettes calls for a look at the lungs Pandemics seem to have a way of reminding us about things we might normally take for granted: The feel of a hug or handshake. The number of times we touch our faces or wash our hands each day. Even our intake of breath--and what it might feel like if COVID-19 blocked our ability to breathe as effortlessly as we normally do. This is a moment in history that has many of us thinking more about our lungs than we ever have before. Lungs do amazing things invisibly. . When we breathe, our heart circulates blood past those tiny gas exchangers to fuel every cell in the body. As the SARS-CoV-2 pathogen spreads across the world, researchers are racing to figure out how this new viral foe steals that ability from us. Part of the work involves finding preexisting health factors that might allow the disease it causes to change from a bad--but beatable--respiratory bug to a deadly threat. Early from the pandemic have revealed some risk factors for the most severe forms of COVID-19. Among the most important: being and having a . Smoking and vaping are also being actively investigated as risk factors. A already suggests that smoking suppresses immune function in the lungs. It is also . And while there are very little data on e-cigarette use and infectious disease risk, the of deadly vaping-related lung illnesses sensitized both the scientific world and the public to the associated with that practice. In by 's reporting partner , we see that while COVID-19 is brand-new, the scientific approach to treating people who get it cannot rely on understanding SARS-CoV-2 in isolation alone. Treatment must also take into account the unique history and susceptibility of each patient's airway. Doing so means understanding, and factoring in, personal habits, including smoking and vaping. is the senior multimedia editor in charge of video and podcasts at . Kit R. Roane is a producer at Retro Report. He has worked as a journalist and documentary photographer for more than 20 years, covering local, national and foreign assignments for a variety of publications, including The New York Times and U.S. News & World Report. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.