Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Naked Singularities--Serious Games--Beef Production  In "Naked Singularities," Pankaj S. Joshi argues that models for stellar collapse can produce naked singularities, or singularities without the event horizon that surrounds a black hole. According to quantum theory, black holes emit thermal radiation and evaporate because of the separation of particle-antiparticle pairs near their event horizon. Will a naked singularity ever disappear?  Riverdale, N.Y. If an event horizon has an extreme but finite spacetime curvature and gravity, and in a singularity these are infinite, how can there be any path between a low-gravity and curvature region and a singularity without passing through a horizon?  Villa Park, Ill. JOSHI REPLIES: .  .  .  In "Childhood Recovered" [News Scan], Gary Stix notes that adult amblyopia patients have achieved substantial improvements after video game-like exercises. He states that "Grand Theft Auto IV or Medal of Honor may retrain the brain in ways its developers never imagined. I found this assertion personally ironic: I was the initial designer and executive producer on the Normandy Beach game that later became the first Medal of Honor and am now working primarily in games that have a function beyond entertainment. Designers are increasingly aware of games' power to influence neural pathway formation and have designed programs to build cognitive reserve through brain training, to treat attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder and to help patients with Parkinson's disease. We may not have thought of those applications years ago, but we are learning to rewire our brains to do so now!  Greenbrae, Calif.  "The Greenhouse Hamburger," by Nathan Fiala, argues that beef production is a major cause of global warming. But the data and articles Fiala cites assume that the total amount of beef produced is all grown in concentrated animal feeding operations (CAFOs). In my beef operation, cows never eat or see a pound of harvested grain. They spend their lives (average of 10 years) eating grass from native pastureland. I am not the exception; all my neighbors raise their cattle the same way.  Oakdale, Calif. FIALA REPLIES: .  .  .  .  .  In discussing the woes of the U.S. auto industry in "Transforming the Auto Industry" [Sustainable Developments], Jeffrey Sachs misses the essential failing that has led to decline of its long-term market share and sales volume: mediocre cars. Having worked in the industry in the 1970s and having followed it since then, I observed at least 15 years go by before U.S. auto executives acknowledged their products' quality deficiencies. They have been playing catch-up since then. American vehicles have been improving, but they still lag. For the U.S. auto industry to truly succeed, management needs a paradigm shift that will result in the best vehicles in their class by any measurement.  Grass Valley, Calif. This article was originally published with the title "Naked Singularities Serious Games Beef Production" in Scientific American  300, 6, 10-11 (June 2009) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0609-10 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.