Read Our Latest Issue ISPs redirected traffic early this week to protect customers from DNSChanger malware, but the move could be seen as just kicking the can down the road The Internet "doomsday virus" that people were warned about over the weekend didn't quite materialize Monday -- but that doesn't mean the threat isn't real. Several large American Internet service providers, among them AT&T, Verizon and Time Warner Cable, picked up where the FBI left off early this morning (July 9). The ISPs were redirecting Web traffic to make sure any customers would still be able to get online. That's great news from a customer-service point of view. But from a security point of view, it could be seen as just kicking the can down the road, since it removes the incentive for affected users to fix their computers.  An AT&T spokesman that the company would keep its affected broadband clients up and running until the end of 2012. A Verizon spokesman told the magazine that it would support affected customers until the end of July, and would help them clean and reset their computers in the meantime. Time Warner Cable planned to do the same. "Time Warner Cable has set up its own DNS servers and any TWC customers infected will continue to be able to use the Internet," Time Warner Cable spokesman Justin Venech told ABC News. "We feel that we are providing a better customer experience if we allow any customers who are infected with this malware to stay online." [ ] In a conversation with SecurityNewsDaily, Venech was not able to say how long Time Warner Cable would keep the redirection service up, but was optimistic that no company clients would lose Internet access. "We started reaching out to our customers who might be affected several weeks ago," Venech said. "We've been pleased to see a decline in numbers since then, and we're continuing to help customers ." Venech wouldn't say how many Time Warner Cable clients were affected, but other U.S. ISPs were reporting numbers well under 1 percent of their customer base. Comcast, on the other hand, told PC World that it was not supporting customers whose Internet settings had been affected by the DNSChanger . Instead, it was working with those customers to get them back online. [ ]  Figures released today by the DNSChanger Working Group in affected Internet Protocol addresses over the past few weeks, from around 300,000 worldwide in mid-June to 210,851 yesterday (July 8). The U.S., by far the most affected country, ; Italy, the next most-affected, had 17,074, followed by India, Germany and Britain. It's not clear how many actual computers and routers that translates to, because computers on the same office or home network usually share one outward-facing IP address. The FBI last month estimated that about 64,000 U.S. users would be affected by its shutdown early this morning of the servers redirecting users affected by DNSChanger.  As long as ISPs that are supporting affected clients are actively working to clean those clients' machines, there's no harm in keeping affected users online. However, past experience demonstrates that many customers, both consumer and corporate, won't do anything until they're forced to. The original DNSChanger support cutoff date of March 8 because less than 30 percent of affected ISPs, including many in top corporations, had fixed their DNS settings. Even today, the response rate is only about 65 percent, meaning that 35 percent of affected ISPs have yet to fix their machines.  But overall, even the top DNSChanger infection number of around 600,000 IP addresses worldwide is a drop in the bucket compared with the total number of IP addresses in use, estimates of which range from 1.6 billion to  3.2 billion. In that light, TV reports of "Internet doomsday" and the "doomsday virus" seem pretty silly. "#doomsdayvirus Much ado about nothing," wrote . "I am trying to be careful as much as possible, but I feel that ?#MalwareMonday is kind of like the ?#Y2K of the internet," wrote .  Unfortunately, the easiest website on which to check to see whether you were affected by DNSChanger, http://www.dns-ok.us, was taken down today. But its Canadian counterpart, , is still up. Scroll down the page and click either "I agree" or "J'accepte" and the site will check your DNS settings. If you see green, you're fine and no longer need to worry. If you see red, here's what to do. First, you'll need to change some settings on your computer. Contact your ISP, or click here for instructions on to use Google's public DNS servers. Step two is to run strong anti-virus software that will clean up your computer. You'll probably have to pay for the software. Here's . The third step is to check your system again; if you're still seeing red, your router may be infected. Contact the router manufacturer for help on how to clean it. If your router's more than five years old, . Most are under $100. Copyright 2012 , a TechMediaNetwork company. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed. May 15, 2012  --  Christine Gorman July 9, 2012  --  Marissa Fessenden July 9, 2012  --  Sara Shipley Hiles and Environmental Health News July 8, 2012 July 9, 2012  --  Rachael Rettner and MyHealthNewsDaily Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.