Read Our Latest Issue Nations around the world are gutting regulations--which could lead to more outbreaks In , it's happening so a housing development can be built. In , it's to make room for an airport. And in both and the , it's to extract more minerals and fossil fuels. These are some of the reasons that governments have given for shrinking or eliminating protected areas in recent months, even as a global pandemic has limited the public's ability to participate in these decisions. The cruel irony is that, by scaling back protected areas, governments are silently weakening policies that can help minimize the risk of future pandemics. Governments must reverse course on these rollbacks, and instead invest in scaling up protections, for the environment and our health. Protected areas are some of the best investments for nature and people that we can make. They can safeguard , and . They can also help to improve in local communities. To give just one example, families living near well-designed protected areas in the tropics have lower poverty rates and better health outcomes on average than similar families living further away. Despite these benefits, rollbacks to protected lands and waters are . Governments around the world have or effectively enacted protections nearly 3,800 times in the past two decades--once about every two days, on average. Most of these rollbacks have opened up lands and waters to industrial activities, like infrastructure, agriculture, mining, and oil and gas drilling. What has changed since the beginning of the outbreak is the ability of governments to make these changes with relatively little public oversight. Since social distancing prevents large gatherings from taking place, some governments have advanced harmful rollbacks with limited input from local communities. In some cases, they have even eliminated the requirements for public consultation in the decision-making process. Some of these actions and vital ecosystems. Others to indigenous communities. Some may lead to the release of significant amounts of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, accelerating the . Many are flying under the radar while the pandemic and the struggle for racial justice understandably absorb public attention. In one particularly egregious example, the government of Canada's province of Alberta has to , following a quiet amendment that in these types of decisions. Wherever they are happening, these rollbacks to protected areas can increase the likelihood of future pandemics. We know that land use change is the of emerging infectious zoonotic diseases, like the virus that caused COVID-19. That is why leading are urging governments to protect nature as a part of their pandemic prevention strategies, something that protected areas do by definition. By opening up protected areas to development, we don't just undermine our efforts to care for protected places. We run the risk of creating the conditions for another pandemic, even while we're still dealing with the current one. We also further risk locking in a harmful trajectory for our climate, when we know that climate change disproportionately affects communities of color. This is why governments around the world must stop harmful environmental rollbacks, especially at a moment when the public cannot adequately participate in the decision-making process. Instead of exploiting this moment to scale back protected areas, governments should follow the and use economic recovery efforts to scale them up. These efforts provide an unprecedented opportunity to strengthen protected areas and the livelihoods they can support when designed well, addressing economic and environmental priorities at the same time. And by improving the health of surrounding ecosystems, such protections can make local communities more resilient against future public health threats. Governments should also keep these rollbacks in mind as they negotiate the post-2020 framework of the Convention on Biological Diversity over the next year. A standard system to track rollbacks globally would improve transparency and accountability, while encouraging better decision-making for the conservation areas that we depend on. , is a social scientist who focuses on environmental governance at the Moore Center for Science at Conservation International. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.