Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The produce aisle goes undersea in a new approach to farming In transparent plastic bubbles 20 feet beneath the surface of the Mediterranean Sea, an experimental garden grows. The strawberries, basil, beans and tomatoes within these air-filled biospheres thrive in their submerged homes. Surrounding water provides the constant temperature and humidity elusive at most terrestrial farms, and freshwater trickles down the spheres' interiors after the seawater below evaporates and then condenses. These marine greenhouses, located off the coast of Italy, represent a foray into underwater farming by Ocean Reef Group, a diving and scuba gear company. Company president Sergio Gamberini chose to grow his crops hydroponically after noticing, during an early trial, that soil brought along stowaway insect pests. He hopes to introduce this gardening approach to coastal developing countries with arid lands. In fact, Gamberini has received requests for biospheres from nations ranging from the Maldives to Saudi Arabia. His son, Luca Gamberini, admits a long path lies ahead: "Our dream is, on a large scale, utopic." This article was originally published with the title "Sunken Strawberries" in Scientific American  313, 3, 21 (September 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0915-21 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.