Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A team of scientists will examine the astrobiological prospects for phosphine on Earth's hellish twin The detection of a is just the beginning. On Monday (Sept. 14), researchers announced that they'd spotted the , at an altitude where temperatures and pressures are similar to those here on Earth at sea level. On our planet, phosphine is produced only by microbes and by human industrial activity, as far as we can tell. So, finding the gas on another world, in an environment that astrobiologists had , is exciting news indeed. But it's unclear at the moment what the new results actually mean, discovery team members stressed. Venusian microbes may be emitting the phosphine, but it's also possible that the stuff is being generated by exotic chemical reactions that we don't understand, and that have nothing to do with life. "We have what could be a biosignature, and a plausible story about how it got there," Pete Worden, executive director of the nonprofit Breakthrough Initiatives, said in a statement. "The next step is to do the basic science needed to thoroughly investigate the evidence and consider how best to confirm and expand on the possibility of life." The Breakthrough Initiatives will help scientists take that next step, by funding a team to study the phosphine find and its potential implications in detail. The researchers will be led by MIT planetary scientist Sara Seager, an expert on atmospheres and potential biosignatures who's also a member of the phosphine discovery team. "The group will investigate the scientific case for life and analyze the technical challenges of an exploratory mission in the event that such evidence proves compelling," Breakthrough Initiatives representatives said in the statement, which did not reveal how much money will be disbursed or how long the study will last. "We are thrilled to push the envelope to try to understand what kind of life could exist in the very harsh Venus atmosphere and what further evidence for life a could search for," Seager said in the same statement. To give you an idea of how harsh that atmosphere is: Venusian clouds are composed primarily of sulfuric acid, which would likely kill Earth-like microbes quickly unless they were surrounded by some sort of protective shell, Seager said during a press conference yesterday. But life, if it exists, does not have to be Earth-like. Microbes may have arisen independently on the second rock from the sun, in which case they'd be very different than the water-dependent organisms on our planet. (And if Venus microbes do indeed represent a " ," we could be pretty sure that life is common throughout the universe.) Seager will be the newly announced project's principal investigator (PI). Joining her on the leadership team are: The new project is a natural fit for the Breakthrough Initiatives, a five-year-old series of science programs founded and funded by tech billionaire Yuri Milner that aims to help answer some of humanity's biggest questions. Other projects funded by the Initiatives include , a $100 million effort to scan the cosmos for signs of extraterrestrial intelligence, and the $100 million , which is developing technology to explore nearby exoplanets up close with tiny robotic probes. "Finding life anywhere beyond Earth would be truly momentous," Milner said in the same statement. "And if there's a non-negligible chance that it's right next door on Venus, exploring that possibility is an urgent priority for our civilization." 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.