Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Books and recommendations from Daphne J. Fairbairn Princeton University Press, 2013 (&dollar;27.95) Biologists have long debated the specific traits that set humans apart from other animals: Is it self-awareness, or morality, or emotions? Recent research has cast doubt on each of these premises, but notes that we are exceptional in at least one respect: how we distinguish men from women. Throughout the animal world, it is far more common for males than for females to be petite and brightly colored. Fairbairn, a biologist at the University of California, Riverside, traces the evolutionary reasons behind these and other sexual differences, while exploring some extreme and fascinating examples. Cases include populations of elephant seals ( ), in which large, aggressive males sexually harass harems of females, and of deep-sea anglerfishes, in which males live as tiny parasites permanently attached to the bellies of their large, predatory female partners. One constant across all species seems to be: there's no accounting for taste. This article was originally published with the title "Odd Couples" in Scientific American  308, 5, 82 (May 2013) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0513-82c Anna Kuchment is a contributing editor at and a staff science writer at the . Previously a reporter, writer and editor with magazine, she is also author of , which is about bacteriophage viruses and their potential as weapons against antibiotic resistance. Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.