Read Our Latest Issue The tick-borne bacteria responsible for Lyme disease, is a wily invader. It causes an array of vague symptoms, or sometimes none at all, making diagnosis difficult. Yet if left untreated, the disease can lead to serious inflammation of the nervous system, heart and joints. The newly approved Lyme vaccine protects 75 to 80 percent of people exposed to infected ticks, but recent research suggests that the effects may not last over the long term, and some doubts have been raised over its safety. So with an eye toward developing better vaccines, researchers at the University of North Carolina and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention decided to further probe the biology of transmission. Their findings, published yesterday in the , reveal that the microbe is even sneakier than scientists thought. "Previous studies showed there were certain surface proteins that were expressed in the tick gut and others that were expressed in the host, and that a switch occurred en route from the tick to the host," team member Aravinda M. de Silva notes. "This paper shows us that things are a lot more complicated." On closer examination of the surface protein expression, the researchers made a key observation: during feeding, the tick actually transmits a highly variable population of into the host. In contrast, when the tick isn't feeding, the population is fairly homogeneous. What this means, says de Silva, is that "the bacteria essentially adapts during the transmission process to maximize the chance of infecting the host." Intriguingly, the fact that the tick spits so many different "flavors" of into the host seems to explain an observation made several years ago, de Silva muses: lyme bacteria delivered by ticks evade the host's immune response more successfully than do cultured bacteria injected into animals. The team suggests that future efforts to develop better vaccines could focus either on antigens produced within the tick before the bacteria population diversifies or on surface proteins common to all of the otherwise variable bacteria. Kate Wong is a senior editor for evolution and ecology at . Credit: Nick Higgins July 5, 2000  --  Julia Karow Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.