Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The next generation of electronic tags promises to outperform RFIDs The proliferation of radio-frequency identification (RFID) devices over the past decade has been nothing short of remarkable. But one of the most sweeping promises of the RFID revolution--that the devices will replace the ubiquitous bar code--has not yet come to pass because of their cost. So researchers have been striving to build RFIDs from a cheaper material: plastic. In 2005 a group of engineers at , a company based in Leuven, Belgium, overcame a major hurdle by constructing a diode made of pentacene, an organic compound that has semiconducting properties. Prior to IMEC's breakthrough, organic devices were considered too slow to power RFID chips. The next step came early this year when a group led by of Philips Research Laboratories in Eindhoven, the Netherlands, announced that it had built a fully functional RFID tag made entirely of plastic electronics. Such a chip would be simpler to manufacture than a silicon-based tag because the design could be directly printed onto a plastic substrate. The elimination of complex assembly may pave the way for low-cost RFID tags incorporated into product packaging. And because RFID readers have a range of a few meters, supermarket clerks could speed the checkout process by scanning all the contents of a grocery cart at once. Meanwhile engineers at have devised a miniature wireless chip that could eventually replace RFID tags in many applications. Called the Memory Spot ( ), the chip can hold up to four megabits of flash memory and transfer those data to a reader at 10 megabits a second. It could be embedded into passports, postcards, pharmaceutical labels and hospital wristbands. This article was originally published with the title "Smart Tags Get Smarter" in Scientific American  295, 6, 55 (December 2006) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1206-55a Mark Alpert is an internationally bestselling author of science thrillers. His latest novel is . Follow him at . 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.