Read Our Latest Issue Bring Science Home:  Water Gravity Erosion From : Structure of the Earth system  How do babbling brooks and mighty rivers come to be? They both depend on two things: water and gravity. Although they might look flat, rivers and streams are always flowing slightly downhill. Eventually, most of the water dumps into lakes, seas or the ocean. But what determines the size and shape of a river? Can a small stream turn into a rushing river over time? Get ready to watch this amazing and powerful process happen in record time.  As water flows downhill, it often washes dirt, rock and other material away with it. This process is called erosion, and it can happen when soil gets washed into a stream after a rainstorm--and over millions of years as water slowly wears down rock to create canyons. Even the tremendous Grand Canyon was formed in large part by the Colorado River wearing down the land over millions of years. But we can watch the process happen in just a few minutes. *    Large, shallow rectangular pan or tray with edges (the plastic lid of a storage container will work, too) *    Disposable plastic water bottle *    Scissors *    Flour or another light powder *    Different color powder, such as cocoa powder, to represent "topsoil" *    Small round snacks, such as seeds, to represent "rocks" *    Medium-sized round snacks, such as small strawberries or dried figs, to be "boulders" *    Longer snacks, such as carrot sticks, to represent obstacles *    Cereal boxes (or other thin objects that can be used to prop up one side of the tray) *    Sink (or other larger container to catch any excess water runoff) *    Pour an inch or two of flour or other powder evenly into the pan or tray. *    Place your pan or tray with a short edge in the sink or container (to catch any extra water or flour runoff). *    Prop up the other side by laying a cereal box on its side so that the bed of flour is slanted slightly toward the sink. Here you have a model of a hill! *    Carefully poke a small hole in the full water bottle near the top (so you don't spill any water), and keep the cap on. This will be your water source, acting like a natural spring or rain. * * If at any point your powdery hill gets too mucky from the water, you can always toss the powder and start the activity again where you left off. *    Hold the water bottle at the center of the top end of the flour slope. Carefully tilt it so that water starts to drip out of the small hole you made. * *    Stop pouring the water. *    Sprinkle some of the cocoa powder in and around the water's path--this represents topsoil. *    Start pouring water into the stream again. *    Now scatter a few small "rocks" (seeds) along the water's path, and pour some more water down the hill. *    Now place some big "boulders" (dried figs, strawberries, and so on) in the water's path. *    Stop pouring the water. *    Finally, try placing some larger obstructions, such as carrot sticks, in the way of the stream. *    Start pouring the water again. *    If you have a big-enough tray, try propping it up at a steeper angle (to make it steeper, add more objects under the "uphill" side). * If you are careful to make sure any extra water will go into the sink (or other larger container), you can try uncapping the water bottle and pouring slightly more water into your stream. *    Stop pouring the water.   How did your stream change over time? What influenced its path, size and shape? The study of water is called hydrology. Scientists study the ways in which different types of materials (such as dirt, sand and rock) affect the formation and shapes of streams and rivers. Some researchers have even found structures that look like riverbeds and canyons on Mars, which they say is evidence that Mars once had liquid water. But water is not the only substance that changes the surface of Earth. Can you think of other forces that change Earth's surface? Big blocks of frozen water in the form of glaciers--such as those that covered much of North America during previous ice ages--can slowly scrape surfaces clear or push dirt and rock to make hills as they advance and recede. Even wind can blow lighter material, such as sand, around, shifting the position of sand dunes. The study of these different processes is called geomorphology.  Recycle the water bottle and be careful when cleaning up the flour and water mixture.   from   from   from Dirtmeister's Science Reporters  overview from BrainPOP  by Robin Koontz and Matthew Harrad, ages 4-8  by Janice VanCleave, ages 9-12  Big Space: The Scale of the Solar System *    Nine small, round objects about the size of a peppercorn (0.1 inch, or 2.5 millimeters, across) *    Measuring tape *    Nine small pieces of paper labeled for the sun and planets (Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune) *    A clear, 21.5-foot- (6.6-meter-) long path on the floor inside or ground outdoors *    A grapefruit (optional) *    Two grains of table salt (optional) *    Two grains of sea salt (optional) *    35 feet (10.7 meters) of space in at least one direction (optional) May 17, 2011  --  Katherine Harmon May 16, 2011  --  Katherine Harmon May 13, 2011  --  Molly Josephs May 12, 2011  --  Molly Josephs May 11, 2011  --  Molly Josephs May 2, 2011  --  Katherine Harmon Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.