Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A forensic worker in Thailand most likely caught the virus from a deceased patient, a preprint study suggests Journal of Forensic and Legal Medicine, Even after death, , a new report finds. A forensic practitioner working in Bangkok, Thailand, most likely caught the virus from a deceased patient, according to the report, which was posted online April 11 as a preprint for the . At the time the report was written on March 19, just 272 people in Thailand -- including the forensic practitioner and a nurse assistant -- had tested positive for the new coronavirus. Most of these cases were imported, meaning they weren't from community spread, the researchers wrote. So, it's unlikely that the forensic practitioner caught the new outside of work or even from a patient at the hospital, the researchers wrote. "There is [a] low chance of forensic medicine professionals coming into contact with infected patients, but they can have contact with biological samples and corpses," the researchers wrote in the report. It's not surprising that the body of a recently deceased COVID-19 patient might be contagious, said Dr. Otto Yang, a professor in the Department of Medicine and the Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Molecular Genetics at the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA. "Absolutely, a dead body would be contagious at least for hours if not days," Yang told Live Science in an email. "The virus will still be in secretions, and potentially still reproducing in cells that haven't yet died in the lungs." COVID-19's possible longevity in the body may be problematic for people in the funerary industry. For instance, following reports that temples in Thailand were refusing to perform funeral services of COVID-19 victims, the head of Thailand's Department of Medical Services announced on March 25 that the disease was not contagious in bodies after death, . It's unclear, however, just how long the virus remains infectious in a dead body. In light of this finding, forensic scientists should take a number of precautions while examining the remains of COVID-19 patients, the researchers said. For instance, forensic professionals should wear protective gear, including a protective suit, gloves, goggles, a cap and a mask, they wrote. "The disinfection procedure used in operation rooms might be applied in pathology/forensic units too," they added. Usually, pathogens that kill people don't survive long enough to spread to others after the person's death, (WHO). "Human remains only pose a substantial risk to health in a few special cases, such as deaths from cholera or haemorrhagic fevers," such as , the WHO said. Other illnesses that are contagious in human remains include , bloodborne viruses (such as hepatitis B and C and ) and gastrointestinal infections (including , hepatitis A, infection and typhoid fever), according to the WHO. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.