Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The berg has now traveled about 1.5 miles from where it broke off The that broke off Antarctica last week will not go quietly into the night. New satellite imagery reveals that the iceberg, dubbed A68, is already shifting shape along with the remaining Larsen C ice shelf itself. moving across the choppy waters of the Weddell Sea was bound to experience an almost unbearable amount of stress. And on Tuesday, the showed the iceberg has begun to crack up. show that the massive iceberg is splintering and a constellation of smaller icebergs are surrounding it. The vagaries of ocean currents and buoyancy of ice will dictate how long the travels together. It's possible the smaller chunks could be the first drift north toward warmer waters in the South Atlantic where they would meet their likely demise. What remains of Larsen C is also reacting to the powerful forces of ice and water. The floating ice shelf is the smallest it has been in recorded history, and it's searching for a new equilibrium. Scientists with Project MIDAS who doggedly documented the rift published new information on the remaining ice shelf on Wednesday. In it, they note that there are a number of potential follow-up icebergs clinging to the remaining ice shelf. Those icebergs will be nowhere near the size of A68, but losing them could still have grave consequences for the ice shelf. . "Although this new rift will probably soon turn towards the shelf edge, there may be a risk that it will continue on to Bawden ice rise, a crucial point of stabilization for Larsen C Ice Shelf." Researchers will be monitoring changes to those rises as well as across the ice shelf to unravel what the future holds. While most scientists have said the rift that led to iceberg A68 is due to natural causes, the fate of the remaining Larsen C ice shelf -- and other ice shelves that ring Antarctica -- is intertwined with climate change. Rising temperatures could melt them and send land ice tumbling into the sea faster, raising sea levels around the world. , an ice researcher at the University of California, Irvine, said in an email earlier this month. "Warm water is the main driver (of melt) now. If warmer air is sufficient to melt the surface, then the ice shelf will break up and sea level rise from Antarctica will enormous." July 12, 2017  --  Nina Chestney July 13, 2017  --  Scott Waldman and E&E News February 21, 2017  --  Jeff Tollefson and Nature magazine Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.