Read Our Latest Issue Mexico's third gender sheds light on the biological correlates of sexual orientation The reasons behind why people are gay, straight or bisexual have long been a source of public fascination. Indeed, research on the topic of sexual orientation offers a powerful window into understanding human sexuality. The recently published a devoted to research in this area, entitled "The Puzzle of Sexual Orientation." One , conducted by at the University of Lethbridge in Alberta, offers compelling, cross-cultural evidence that common genetic factors underlie same-sex, sexual preference in men. Among the indigenous Zapotec people in southern Mexico, individuals who are biologically male and sexually attracted to men are known as . They are recognized as a third gender: tend to be masculine in their appearance and behavior; are feminine. In Western cultures, they would be considered gay men and transgender women, respectively. Several correlates of male androphilia--sexual attraction of biological males to men--have been shown across different cultures, which is suggestive of a common biological foundation among them. For example, the fraternal birth order effect--the phenomenon whereby male androphilia is predicted by having a higher number of biological older brothers--is evident in both and . Interestingly, in Western society, homosexual men, compared with heterosexual men, tend to recall of separation anxiety--the distress resulting from being separated from major attachment figures, such as one's primary caregiver or close family members. Research in Samoa has similarly demonstrated that third-gender --individuals who are feminine in appearance, biologically male and attracted to men--also recall when compared with heterosexual Samoan men. Thus, if a similar pattern regarding separation anxiety were to be found in a third, disparate culture--in the case of the state of Oaxaca in Mexico--it would add to the evidence that male androphilia has biological underpinnings. The recent study included 141 heterosexual women, 135 heterosexual men, and 178 (61 and 117 ). Study participants were interviewed using a questionnaire that asked about separation anxiety--more specifically, the distress and worry they experienced as a child in relation to being separated from a parental figure. Participants rated how true each question was for them when they were between the ages of six and 12. showed elevated rates of childhood separation anxiety when compared with heterosexual men, similar to what has been seen in gay men in Canada and in Samoa. There were also no differences in anxiety scores between women and or , or between the two types of . When we consider possible explanations for these results, social mechanisms are unlikely because previous research has shown that anxiety is heritable and parenting tends to be to children's traits and behaviors, as opposed to the other way around. Biological mechanisms, however, offer a more compelling account. For instance, exposure to of sex steroid hormones in the prenatal environment are thought to "feminize" regions of the male brain that are related to sexual orientation, thereby influencing attachment and anxiety. On top of these observations, studies in molecular genetics have shown that Xq28, a region located at the tip of the X chromosome, is involved in both the expression of and . This work suggests that common genetic factors may underlie the expression of both. Twin studies additionally point to genetic explanations as the underlying force for partner preference in men and , a personality trait that is comparable to anxiety. The research points to childhood separation anxiety as a culturally universal correlate of androphilia in men. This has important implications for our understanding of children's mental health conditions because subclinical levels of separation anxiety, when intertwined with male androphilia, may represent a typical part of the developmental life course. As it stands, sexual orientation research will continue to evoke widespread interest and controversy for the foreseeable future because it has the potential to be used--for better or worse--to uphold particular sociopolitical agendas. The moral acceptability of homosexuality has often hinged on the idea that same-sex desires are innate and immutable and therefore not a choice. This is clear when we think about how previous beliefs around homosexuality being learned were once used to justify now discredited attempts to change these desires. The cross-cultural similarities evinced by the Lethbridge study offer further evidence that being gay is genetic, which is, in itself, an interesting finding. But we as a society should challenge the notion that sexual preferences must be nonvolitional to be socially acceptable or safe from scrutiny. The etiology of homosexuality, biological or otherwise, should have no bearing on gay individuals' right to equality. Debra W. Soh, PhD, writes for The Globe and Mail and Playboy, and has a forthcoming podcast with Jonathan Kay titled "Wrongspeak." Follow her on Twitter . 5 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 6 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 7 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 13 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.