Read Our Latest Issue During photosynthesis, plants convert carbon dioxide into carbohydrates, fuel that allows plants to build tissue and grow. Based on the chemical conversions that take place during photosynthesis, scientists can predict how much bigger plants will become in an environment with increased carbon dioxide levels. In studies in greenhouses and enclosed chambers, this prediction is accurate. Those studies led the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) to conclude in 2001 that crop yields will increase with global warming, and that the world's food supply is not in immediate danger. But greenhouse and chamber environments lead to higher temperatures, poor airflow and trapped humidity, and do not imitate real crop-growing conditions, according to the paper published in the current issue of "A plant breeding company certainly wouldn't select varieties based on chamber studies, so we don't think our future predictions should be based on those. We think they should be based on rigorous field studies, and that's what FACE allows us to do," says co-author Elizabeth Ainsworth of the University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign. FACE, which stands for free-air concentration enrichment, is an apparatus that enabled the researchers to control the concentration of gases in the air without affecting any other variables such as temperature or humidity. In FACE studies, carbon dioxide is released from different points surrounding a section of a crop field. A computer program constantly monitors wind direction, wind velocity and carbon dioxide concentration in the field, adjusting the positions and amount of gas released so that the carbon dioxide concentration remains constant. The researchers studied soybeans, wheat, rice, maize and sorghum at the atmospheric carbon dioxide levels predicted to exist 50 to100 years from now. They found that in the field, only about half the expected increase in crop yield actually occurred. Although these results cast doubt on the IPCC's conclusion about the safety of the world's food supply, the researchers believe that a solution exists. According to Ainsworth, the low crop yield means there must be something limiting the plants from taking full advantage of the extra carbon dioxide. "If we can breed for plants that don't have those limitations, they can respond better to the carbon dioxide increases in the future," Ainsworth remarks. "It's a call for more research in this field." Kate Schrock has been an editor of Scientific American MIND since 2007, where she edits feature articles and runs Head Lines, the magazine's news department. After studying astronomy and physics at the University of Southern California, she worked in the Laboratory of Neuro Imaging at the University of California, Los Angeles, studying the brain structure of people with schizophrenia. She then enrolled in the Science, Health and Environmental Reporting program at New York University, where she earned a master's degree in journalism. August 26, 2005  --  Sarah Graham April 22, 2003  --  Sarah Graham November 15, 2000  --  Harald Franzen March 28, 2003  --  Laura Wright Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.