Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue One common activity on was to boldly get busy If you're like me, you've watched a lot of . If you're even more like me, you'll read the new book , by Mohamed A. F. Noor, professor of biology at Duke University and editor in chief of the journal . And being like me, you will turn immediately to Chapter 5: "Sex, Reproduction, and the Making of New Species." Because ever since you first saw Captain Kirk canoodle with a series of apparently female, apparently humanoid organisms you've been like, "I gotta check the Statutes of Alpha III to see if that's kosher." Closely related species do get it on and can even beget offspring. A horse and a donkey can produce a mule. A lion and a tiger can produce a liger. A polar bear and a grizzly can produce a pizzly. But a human being and anything not a human being can produce a court appearance. Still, humans bonk nonhumans regularly (by which I mean often--though I don't know about the actual ways and means) in Roddenberryland. "Given that interspecies mating is uncommon on Earth, it appears unusually common among the humanoid species depicted in the various series," Noor writes. "Indeed," he continues, "attraction to members of other humanoid species does not seem noticeably weaker in any of the five series than attraction to members of one's own species." So I called Noor and asked him what's with all the outer-spacey interspecies mating? "It's interesting the way the series depicts it," he responded. "They make it seem as though different species are no different from human ethnic groups or something like that, where, oh, this person is slightly exotic and therefore attractive. And that's not what you expect if you're looking at an actually different species. If we go to the zoo and we see a chimpanzee, we're not attracted to it any more than it is attracted to us." In fact, depending on what fictional history of the universe you subscribe to, a human being and a Vulcan or a Klingon never had a common ancestor and are the result of amazingly high-fidelity convergent evolution. Or an exceedingly ancient species (represented by the "Humanoid Progenitor" in episode "The Chase") seeded the universe to force evolution to come up with all of us different types of bilaterally symmetrical, upright-walking intelligent space travelers. Which means humans and the other species with which they're bumping uglies (we don't know how ugly) have no evolutionary relationship at all or that the relationship is far more distant than the one between us and chimps. But we'll grant the writers a certain license so that they can include romance in their story lines--and because there's only so much you can do to make human actors look like alien species you'd never meet for coffee. (For some anatomically intriguing interspecies mating, see the best of all the movies, namely , which is not really part of the franchise, in particular the scene in which Tony Shalhoub makes out with Missi Pyle, who starts caressing him with tentacles. To which Sam Rockwell echoes my earlier concerns when he says, "Oh, that's not right.") If you assume a relatively close degree of genetic similarity among these humanoid species, "the interspecies mating is not so crazy," Noor noted. "Rather than humans and chimps being the analogy, it's more like humans and Neandertals." And when Noor says "humans," it's shorthand for us modern humans, . Plenty of other human species have existed, including the one categorized by some researchers as , a fully separate species, and by others as , just another subspecies. However you slice it, we know that and mixed it up--you've got Neandertal genes in your pool. So here's to the universe's interspecies residents, including B'Elanna Torres (Klingon-human), Deanna Troi (Betazoid-human) and, of course, Mr. Spock (Vulcan-human). As Kirk said at one of Spock's funerals, "Of all the souls I have encountered in my travels, his was the most [Shatner pause] human." Which Spock would have found deeply insulting. This article was originally published with the title "Parsex" in Scientific American  319, 6, 92 (December 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1218-92 Steve Mirsky was the winner of a Twist contest in 1962, for which he received three crayons and three pieces of construction paper. It remains his most prestigious award. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.