Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Fluoridation; ; Congress and Science A report by the National Research Council (NRC) is cited as suggesting negative effects of fluoride in "Second Thoughts about Fluoride," by Dan Fagin. But the NRC notes that its report was not initiated because of concerns about the low levels of fluoride used in community water fluoridation, nor did it examine that issue. Instead the report is part of a routine review by the Environmental Protection Agency to address whether the higher levels of naturally occurring fluoride currently allowed in drinking water pose a health risk. The EPA is evaluating the report. The article rightly points out that enamel fluorosis only has a health impact in the severest cases, yet Fagin incorrectly refers to it as a "disease." It is rather a disruption in enamel formation that affects the way teeth look. The American Dental Association (ADA) offers information on reducing the risk of fluorosis at . The ADA's support for fluoridation is based on more than six decades of research, thousands of studies, and the experience of more than 170 million Americans. We welcome additional peer-reviewed scientific studies that will add to the body of knowledge on the use of fluoride. In " " [News Scan], Scott Dodd explains that cosmic microwave background radiation shows that 380,000 years after its birth, the universe was filled with hot gas. He then writes, "Eventually the early cosmos underwent inflation...." This statement is misleading. It implies that the exponential expansion of the universe called inflation occurred hundreds of thousands of years after the big bang. According to inflationary cosmology, inflation occurred around 10^-35 second after the big bang. " ," by Ken Zweibel, James Mason and Vasilis Fthenakis, calls for the conversion of 30,000 square miles of pristine desert into photovoltaic farms. A better alternative exists: utilize rooftops. Although this strategy will not take advantage of the concentrated sunshine of the Southwest and will not be as efficient, it will distribute power generation across all time zones and weather conditions, without paving over additional land. Has anyone looked into the effects of installing 30,000 square miles of low-albedo surface material? Solar panels, by design, have a much lower albedo than most flat ground in the Southwest. How would their greater heat absorption affect the local environment? THE AUTHORS REPLY: In " " [Perspectives], the editors propose that Congress is habitually inattentive to science and that this irresoluteness has persisted despite the shift of legislative power in 2007 to the Democrats. But like college students, Congress usually concludes most of its work in the last week or two of each session. Had the editors waited one month, they might have noticed that the moribund energy bill they cite has actually passed, as has the increase in fuel economy standards. Although Congress can be slow and indecisive, it was designed that way to minimize precipitous action. Do the editors really expect it, in less than a year and facing a dead-certain presidential veto, to pass a bill that would result in historically sweeping changes to our energy and environmental policies, to our economy and probably to our lifestyles? If nothing has happened in three to four years, they can get on their high horse. But now I would be concerned about the soundness of any major proposal that passed in a few months. This article was originally published with the title "Fluoridation Solar Power Congress and Science" in Scientific American  298, 5, 12-14 (May 2008) 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.