Read Our Latest Issue A low-pressure science project Physics Air pressure Volume Forces You might have heard people talking about pressure before: maybe that there is too much of it, or not enough. Pressure can mean different things in everyday English, but in general when scientists talk about pressure they mean a constant physical force (such as a push or a pull) exerted or applied to an object. For example, if you sit on an inflated balloon, you can see the effect of the pressure on that balloon--at least, until it pops! In this activity we're going to use pressure in an unexpected way. Can you keep air in a balloon without tying the bottom? What about keeping water inside a bottle, even if there's a hole in it? Maybe you can do both--with just the right amount of pressure! Have you ever used your finger to seal the top of a straw, and noticed that some of your drink stayed inside the straw--even if you lifted it above the surface of the liquid? If so, then you've already tested the amazing properties of air pressure! Even though we can't see them, air molecules comprise the air all around us. You can feel them moving if you clap your hands close to your face, and feel a small blast of air on your cheek. Those are air molecules! Despite being invisible to us, those molecules still exert a pressure or force on everything in our environment, including you. You can feel their pressure by holding a piece of paper in one hand, facing up toward you. Move the paper up and down quickly. Can you feel the resistance, or force, of the air against the paper? Now try holding the paper with the edge facing you. Move it up and down again, quickly. It was easier the second time because the paper wasn't facing the direction in which you were moving it--there was less resistance or force from the air molecules. The force of air molecules is important in this activity. They will act on the air and water inside a bottle in a few different (and surprising) ways. Get ready to turn up the pressure! During the first test, when your finger was covering the hole in the bottom of the water bottle, you should have observed that the balloon stayed the same size and did not leak air. This might have surprised you; usually if you let go of an inflated balloon without tying it, you end up chasing after your balloon as it quickly loses air! What was holding the air inside the balloon this time? The answer is: air (and water)! Most of the room in the bottle was taken up by water, with some air at the top. There might have been a little room at the top of the bottle for more air to squeeze in (so your balloon might have shrunk a small amount in the very beginning), but then it should have stayed the same size. The air in the balloon had nowhere to go, because the bottle was already full! When you lifted your finger and allowed the water to flow out of the bottle, however, something different happened. You should have seen your balloon start to deflate, or lose air. Why did it lose air when you lifted your finger? Because the water leaving the bottle left room for the air inside the balloon to enter the bottle. Even though you couldn't see it, as the water leaked out, the bottle was slowly filling with air from the balloon. You might have seen this when you covered the hole again. If the balloon was shrinking before you re-covered the hole, it probably stopped when the hole was sealed again. When the water stopped leaving, no more air could fit into the bottle. In the second part of this activity you might have noticed that the appearance of the balloon changed as the water leaked out of the bottle. It might have become shriveled looking, as the tiny bit of air inside the balloon went into the bottle. The reason for this result is similar to the explanation for the first test. As the water left the bottle, it created space for the air inside the balloon. Even though in this case it was a small amount of air, it still had an effect on the size of the balloon--and as that air left, the balloon shrunk. In addition, in the second part of the activity you probably noticed a big change in the water leaking out of the bottle. At some point, the water should have stopped leaking out of the hole (or significantly slowed), even though there was still water in the bottle! How is this possible? Again, the answer has to do with air pressure. Because the balloon is empty, no air is trying to get into the bottle from the top. In fact, the balloon seals the bottle, so no air get in through the top of the bottle. This doesn't mean air isn't exerting a force on the water in the bottle, however. Air molecules outside the bottle are exerting pressure from all sides of the bottle, including at the hole in its bottom. Normally, without the balloon on top, the water would leak out of the bottle because the pressure from the air coming in the top of the bottle, combined with the force of gravity pulling on the water, is greater than the force of the air molecules pushing on the bottom of the bottle. When we put the balloon on top, however, the air molecules at the top of the bottle can't exert any pressure, the balloon is sealing the bottle. Therefore, the only forces acting on the water are gravity and the force of the air molecules pushing up. In this case, the force of the air outside the hole is great enough to help slow the leakage of water from the bottle.  , from Science Buddies  , from  , from Science Buddies  , from Science Buddies 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.