Read Our Latest Issue More than two dozen works of art ferried to and from (as well as created on) the International Space Station went on exhibit to benefit learning centers inspired by space shuttle When  , following in the footsteps of his astronaut father, he didn't go empty-handed. He brought with him 20 paintings and photographs to put on temporary display within the cramped confines of the International Space Station (ISS). That artwork, which Garriott brought home 12 days later, along with six more pieces he created on board the ISS, was on display recently on as part of an exhibit called , organized to benefit a group of learning centers created in memory of space shuttle 's tragic final mission.  The initial 20 pieces of art--works by 10 different artists--were selected for Garriott's mission based on each piece's interpretation of space and the impact it could have on astronauts living and working there. The cargo also included five watercolors that came from the brush of Helen Garriott, Richard's mother. Richard Garriott's own artistry--an interpretation of the "action painting" made famous by --took advantage of the ISS's microgravity environment. Instead of splashing paint on a canvas, Garriott built a paint box that allowed droplets of paint to form spheres that would float over and stick to the paper inside the box.  Photographer Melinda Fager submitted one of her photos--"Cornish Cow"--in 2008 after hearing about the competition to have artwork displayed in the orbiting outpost. Fager's photo and the other artwork ferried to and from the station was later auctioned off to benefit the , founded in 1986 just three months after the post-liftoff accident that claimed the lives of seven NASA crew members. Fager liked that the proceeds would go to help the Center's network of 48 learning facilities. "And I thought it was a kick that the cow went up over the moon"--so to speak--she says.  "It was not an obvious choice, but it was so homey," Garriott says of "Cornish Cow." "In space you're trying to create a homelike environment. It's the antithesis of the mechanical surroundings of the space station in orbit."    Garriott, son of , flew to the ISS as part of Space Adventures, Ltd., a Vienna, Va., company in which he has invested. He entered orbit not as a tourist but rather as a civilian astronaut whose to-do list included snapping nearly 500 pictures of Earth and participating in a series of experiments to test spaceflight's impact on his immune system, sleep patterns and eyes. (His vision was corrected by laser surgery more than a decade ago.)  Garriott has been an avid support of the Center network, noting that they offer a place where students, teachers and other curious people can learn more about the science and technology involved in space travel. Plans are underway to expand the centers into the virtual world within the next year and a half. The online effort will include Web-based educational games, simulated space missions and other opportunities to bring the center's content to a wider audience, says Steven Kussmann, the organization's acting president. This is particularly important for students in grades five through eight to nurture their interest in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) as the curriculum becomes more sophisticated. Larry Greenemeier is the associate editor of technology for , covering a variety of tech-related topics, including biotech, computers, military tech, nanotech and robots. Credit: Nick Higgins October 20, 2011  --  Larry Greenemeier Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.