Read Our Latest Issue A countless science project from Science Buddies Reflection Mirrors Light Infinity Can you imagine a bouncy ball that could bounce back and forth between two walls, infinitely--that is, forever? Wouldn't that be amazing? What if, instead of a ball, light was bouncing between two walls, which were both covered in mirrors? Do you think could bounce back and forth forever? Imagine each light bounce added one reflection of an object in the mirror--for example, you! Would it look like there were an infinite number of "yous"? Perhaps you have noticed something like this in a fun house or a room with multiple mirrors. But can we create an infinite number of reflections? Try this activity, and be amazed by the many images mirrors can create! Before you know it, you might be inspired to create some real works of beauty. The reason why you see objects is that light hitting these objects reflects back into your eyes (and then is perceived and represented as those objects by your brain). But what happens if light coming from an object hits a flat mirror and is reflected (or bounced back) before it hits your eyes? Your brain, being unaware that the light was reflected, will reconstruct an image with the information it received, assuming the light traveled on a straight path from the object to the eye. The result is what you see in the mirror: an object that looks similar, but appears to be placed behind the mirror. We call this a of the object. It is an , a virtual image of a real object. Mirrors, being shiny, reflect almost all the light hitting their surface. In addition, they have a very smooth surface, causing light to reflect in an orderly way. This allows your brain to reconstruct a clear image. High-quality mirrors reflect light especially well, but even high-quality mirrors absorb and scatter a small fraction of the light hitting them. As a result, a reflection is always a little dimmer and slightly less crisp than the image made with the same light reaching the eye directly. Now, what image would your brain create if light reflected times before hitting your eyes? Find out in this activity, and discover ways to create beautiful images!  Did you get the impression of an infinite series of fingers? When you looked at your finger in the wall mirror, you saw a reflection created by light bouncing off your finger hitting the mirror surface and reflecting back in your eyes. The finger appeared to be behind the mirror. Did you notice that you saw the side of your finger facing the mirror, the nail side? When you added the small mirror, you allowed light that was reflected on the wall mirror to hit the small mirror. This created a reflection of a reflection. You could not see this reflection of a reflection, as it was created behind the small mirror while you were looking in the wall mirror. However, you could observe a reflection of it as light from the reflection of a reflection hit the wall mirror and bounced back. A small fraction of this bounced-back light reached your eye, allowing you to see the reflection of a reflection of a reflection. Each bounce of light, back and forth, will add another reflection of a reflection to the count. The reflections in your activity probably looked as if they went on and on an infinite number of times (although given what we know about mirrors scattering and absorbing some of the light each time, we know that the number we could see is actually finite). Did you notice that the small mirror also reflected the skin-side of your fingertip, so you could see the skin-side of your fingertip as a reflection of a reflection in the wall mirror? Did your reflections get dimmer and less sharp as they appeared to be farther away? With each reflection, the mirror absorbs and scatters a tiny fraction of the light. After several reflections, the image fades out and you are no longer able to distinguish reflections. Increasing the distance between the mirrors will accelerate this fading, and thus, result in fewer visible reflections. You might have been able to block reflected light with your finger, preventing any further reflections to occur. In this case, you only saw one reflection showing your fingernail. When you tried the extra activity, holding one mirror against another at a 90-degree angle or at a smaller angle, you should have seen a circle of images appear. When the angle is an even division of 360 degrees (a full circle) you will get a beautiful pattern of reflections. Kaleidoscopes use both--the seemingly infinite reflections and the angled mirrors--to create beautiful images.  , from Optics 4 Kids  , from  , from Science Buddies 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.