Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Beyond the Kindle, future electronic page displays will be more efficient--and in color Electronic book readers such as Sony's Digital Reader and Amazon's Kindle have their fans, but the displays are difficult to read in sunlight and do not show colors well. A new kind of electronic paper could make the readers brighter and more colorful, which is of interest to conservationists who would like to see the devices replace paper editions. The prototype is an "electrofluidic display" built by the University of Cincinnati's Novel Devices Laboratory. Lead researcher Jason Heikenfeld says the display can create 1,000 colors, reflects about 55 percent of ambient light and could reach 85 percent reflectivity. Today's commercial readers, which use a different screen technology, reflect about 40 percent of ambient light and become even dimmer when showing color images because filters must be added. Heikenfeld and his colleagues recently formed Gamma-Dynamics, LLC, to commercialize their innovation. The goal, Heikenfeld says, is to continue to improve display quality "until it can mimic the appearance of pigment on paper." This article was originally published with the title "Paperless Books: A Step Closer" in SA Special Editions 19, 2s, 11 (June 2009) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanearth0609-11b Larry Greenemeier is the associate editor of technology for , covering a variety of tech-related topics, including biotech, computers, military tech, nanotech and robots. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.