Read Our Latest Issue Citations and further reading for the print news section The Advances section of 's March issue discusses how reducing soot emissions could be a quick, if temporary, fix for global warming; explains why cramming for tests doesn't work; and examines physicists' latest efforts to make an object disappear. To learn more about these, and all our other stories, click on the links below.  The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) has a about the Japan tsunami debris on its Web site.  The study in on the ineffectiveness of cramming can be found online . ( is part of Nature Publishing Group.)  The study describing the new parasitic flies that may have recently started attacking honeybees was . was there when colony-collapse disorder was and since then all sorts of have been proposed.  S. R. Bordenstein's on the way microbial communities might play a role in evolution can be found in the journal .  It might be easier to understand how the cloaking device works once you see 's of the time cloak. You can also find the original in .  See Jill McDermott's research and photographs of the at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution's Web site.   covered the tragic case of Sheharbano "Sheri" Sangji when it first happened in 2010. Recently, the University of California, Los Angeles, issued a to the charges brought against them. View the U.S. Chemical Safety Board's video about academic lab safety .  See videos of the leaping lizards that inspired engineers to construct a new robotic vehicle .  The economic benefit of cutting soot is described in in .  The complete post on dying stars can be found --along with to some of the brightest bangs we've seen so far.  You can read the entire blog about your trusty appendix . Rose Eveleth is a writer and producer who explores how humans tangle with science and technology. She's the creator and host Flash Forward, a podcast about possible (and not so possible) futures, and has covered everything from fake tumbleweed farms to million dollar baccarat heists. March 1, 2012  --  Elizabeth Grossman March 1, 2012  --  John Matson March 1, 2012  --  Carrie Arnold March 1, 2012  --  Rose Eveleth March 1, 2012  --  Beryl Lieff Benderly Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.