Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue recommendations on nuclear proliferation and ancient alcohol by Nick Brandt. Abrams, 2009 Wildlife photographer Nick Brandt's stunning images of African animals reveal such familiar creatures as lions, zebras, giraffes and elephants in a remarkable new light. Here a lion faces an oncoming storm in Kenya's Masai Mara National Reserve. > Slideshow:  by Michael D. Gordin. Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2009  "The world's first nuclear explosion, the Trinity test, was actually the second test conducted by Los Alamos scientists. Since none of the participants in the [Manhattan Project] had ever experienced an explosion of the anticipated size of Trinity (radically underestimated in advance as the equivalent of four thousand to five thousand tons of TNT), Kenneth Bainbridge, to whom [J. Robert] Oppenheimer had delegated the testing procedure, opted to conduct a scale model of the forthcoming atomic test by detonating one hundred tons of TNT off a thirty-eight-foot-high tower.... The test, which also served as a dry run of the wiring and instrumentation, was conducted on May 7, 1945. Some fission products were placed in the explosive so that radioactive traces could be measured. This was as close to a practice run as the Americans had. "In retrospect, many American scientists understandably considered the Trinity test of July 16, 1945, as the watershed of their involvement in weapons design. Yet during the preceding months, it was by no means clear that the explosion would work, and [General Leslie] Groves authorized the construction of a twenty-five-by-ten-foot, two hundred-ton vessel (code-named 'Jumbo') to contain the explosion in case of a misfire, so as to recover the valuable plutonium. It was eventually decided to proceed without Jumbo, but the very consideration of it reveals how uncertain the Manhattan Project seemed even at that late date."  by Patrick McGovern. University of California Press, 2009 by Noel Kingsbury. University of Chicago Press, 2009 by David P. Barash and Judith Eve Lipton. Bellevue Literary Press, 2009 by Orrin Pilkey and Rob Young. Island Press, 2009 by James B. Kaler. Princeton University Press, 2009 by Andrew Lambert. Yale University Press, 2009 by Martin Gardner. Hill and Wang, 2009 by Elizabeth Grossman. Island Press, 2009 by Colin Tudge. Crown, 2009 Neil deGrasse Tyson, director, Hayden Planetarium at the American Museum of Natural History ( ) Richard Wiseman, magician and professor of psychology, University of Hertfordshire in England ( ) Shawn Carlson, physicist and executive director, Society for Amateur Scientists ( ) Charles Seife, science writer and professor of journalism, New York University ( ) This article was originally published with the title "African Wildlife Nuclear Proliferation Ancient Alcohol" in Scientific American  301, 5, 94 (November 2009) Kate Wong is a senior editor for evolution and ecology at . Credit: Nick Higgins October 2, 2009  --  Carina Storrs Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.