Read Our Latest Issue Compassionate use of experimental medicine needs to coexist with scientific rigor to help patients, researchers write in the journal Does a widespread medical emergency justify speedier, and sometimes less rigorous, ways to test treatments and evaluate results? Doctors and patients urgently need to get their hands on drugs for the COVID-19 pandemic. But bioethicists Jonathan Kimmelman of McGill University and Alex John London of Carnegie Mellon University argue in an April 23 article that hurried trials and tests can do more harm than good. They highlight hastily published case reports that, they contend, can lead doctors to believe some drugs offer more of a benefit than has been proved. The researchers also draw parallels with the 2013-2016 Ebola outbreak, in which, they say, relaxed scientific standards for medication trials led to a paucity of effective treatments. Kimmelman says physicians should be able to try experimental drugs on desperately ill patients on a so-called compassionate use basis. But he argues that these efforts should not displace careful science. He discussed these concerns with . [ .] One example is a paper that was published in the about the [experimental antiviral drug] remdesivir. This was not a clinical trial. This was a series of case reports using remdesivir under the compassionate use mechanism. [ asked the for a response, and a spokesperson declined to comment.] If you can assume that your audience has sufficient sophistication to interpret the article as such, then I don't see a problem with it. But those conditions are not really holding. If you're a working doctor, you're busy. You don't have time to sit down and carefully read the reports. You're treating patients, and you see, "Oh, there's a paper about remdesivir being effective." If you want to run a rigorous clinical trial to determine whether or not the risks and expense of using [remdesivir] are worthwhile, you need to have a control group. It's going to be hard to invite patients to go into a trial where they have a 50 percent chance of getting a placebo if most physicians, and most patients, believe [the drug is] already proved to be effective. I don't have a problem with compassionate use, provided that it is not interfering with the efficient conduct of clinical research. My concern is when compassionate use begins to siphon patients who might otherwise be eligible for clinical trials away from those clinical trials. Or when it begins sopping up enormous resources that, in my opinion, we should be directing toward establishing that these treatments are actually effective, as opposed to throwing darts at a dartboard. Medicine is replete with examples of treatments that looked really, really promising in case reports or in small clinical trials or in larger but poorly designed clinical trials. But then, when they were put to rigorous evaluation in a properly designed and reported randomized controlled trial, they turned out to be ineffective or--even worse--harmful, compared with the standard of care. The field of Alzheimer's disease is littered with drugs that looked really promising in phase II clinical trials but that turned out to be ineffective when they were put into phase III clinical trials. In my opinion, it is. But it requires doing science differently than we normally do it. There are clinical trial designs called master protocols that allow you to evaluate many interventions in a single clinical trial. Study arms or interventions can be added or dropped, depending on whether or not there's a new treatment that looks really promising. Because the process is seamless, there is less dead time between the end of one trial and the beginning of another. The World Health Organization's Solidarity trial [for four COVID-19 treatments] is an example. But those kinds of studies require a lot of coordination. Many people argued that (a) it would be unethical to put people into a placebo group [because the death rate was so high] and (b) we shouldn't demand exacting scientific standards when we're evaluating these treatments. There were around eight treatment trials conducted, only one of which actually was a randomized controlled trial that used the proper comparator group. At the end of the day, we still don't have a clear sense of whether most of these treatments, including convalescent plasma and the antiviral drug favipiravir, do more harm than good and whether they're worth deploying. Penicillin is a good example of that. And there are many other examples in cancer. But they are the exception. It turns out that most drugs have small effects, and you need to observe them in a lot of patients in order to be able to detect a clear signal that they are beneficial. I think some people think we're going to hit a home run or a grand slam [with a new drug]. Grand slams, both in baseball as well as in medicine, are extremely rare. Your strategy shouldn't be to get grand slams all the time. It should be to get people on base. That's much more realistic, and you can win a lot more games that way. Anna Kuchment is a contributing editor at and a staff science writer at the . Previously a reporter, writer and editor with magazine, she is also author of , which is about bacteriophage viruses and their potential as weapons against antibiotic resistance. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.