Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Learn who is at higher risk for melanoma and what features are more concerning for this aggressive type of skin cancer Skin concerns are one of the top questions at the doctor's office. But the most dreaded type of skin condition is melanoma; among the , it is the only potentially life-threatening one. But with so many moles, rashes, and skin lumps and bumps, how can you tell when something is concerning? How can you tell if it's something that potentially can wait, and when it's something to address with your doctor right away? Melanoma is a cancer of the skin cells that produce pigment, called "melanin," that produces color in our skin. Melanoma tends to be less common in those with pigment in their skin--although still possible, of course. The cells go out of whack and overgrow, producing more pigment than they should. And sometimes they go overboard, producing abnormal cells in the process. There are other that are less concerning, mainly squamous cell carcinoma and basal cell carcinoma, which tend to be (thankfully) much more common than melanoma. However, melanoma is the most dreaded type of skin cancer because of its potential to be aggressive and metastasize (spread) to other organs, and hence be life threatening. Sanaz Majd, MD, is a Family Medicine physician and the host of the podcast on Quick and Dirty Tips. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.