Read Our Latest Issue More energy-efficient buildings are the cheapest, fastest way to reduce energy demand--and the greenhouse gas emissions causing climate change Our emitted by human activity--the bulk of it for heating in winter and air-conditioning in summer, according to the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC).  Taking simple steps such as caulking windows, installing thicker insulation and double-paned windows, and using energy-efficient appliances can cut the energy used in a given building by as much as 50 percent. In fact, such in the U.S. alone could negate the need for 66 large coal-fired power plants, according to a study by McKinsey Global Institute, an economic think tank and global consultancy.  "Just tightening up the air leakage [insulating and caulking] could get you up to 40 percent in energy savings," says Robert Moran, national sales manager of building envelopes at chemical giant BASF.  Yet, only 2 percent of commercial real estate and 0.3 percent of new homes are considered to be " "--defined as "environmentally preferable practices and materials in the design, location, construction, operation and disposal of buildings," in a 2008 report by the Montreal-based Commission for Environmental Cooperation (CEC). The CEC is an international organization established by Canada, Mexico and the U.S. under the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) to address continent-wide environmental issues.  Still, from the Bank of America building in Midtown Manhattan that boasts recycled and renewable construction materials to the , like the Aquatics Center that captures rainwater, greener buildings are beginning to rise.   David Biello is a contributing editor at . Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.