Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue It isn't possible to pinpoint exactly who is most responsible for humankind's best invention of all time. I am, of course, talking about science--the process that lets us test our assumptions, gather evidence and analyze the results. That process has propelled advances in basic research and practical applications for everything from extending our lives to expanding our physical and mental horizons. Around the third century b.c. Aristotle and other ancient Greek philosophers put us on the right track, employing measurement to help learn about the world. Muslim scholars later pioneered the basics of testing and observation, the foundations of the scientific method, perhaps more than 1,000 years ago. Among the others who helped to refine the process were Roger Bacon, who fostered the use of inductive reasoning in the 1200s; Galileo, who put Bacon's ideas into practice in the late 1500s and early 1600s; and Rene Descartes, Francis Bacon and Isaac Newton, who built on the method shortly before and during the Enlightenment of the 1700s--to name a mere handful. In our single-topic issue, " ," we celebrate just how far we have come as a species using that rational system. A series of apparent barriers now stands before us in our current life span: the physical body's performance, individual intellectual capacity, engineering capabilities and even collective knowledge. How will we move past them? In this special edition, we promise a mind-expanding armchair journey, with leading scientists and expert journalists as guides, to the edges--and beyond--of what is and will be possible. For instance, in " " journalist Tim Folger writes about the Flynn effect, a kind of Moore's law for measures of intelligence. In a world that prizes logic and abstraction, a positive feedback loop has led to our continuous progress in mental adaptation and the invention of new technologies. " ," by staff editor Katherine Harmon, examines efforts to lead longer, healthier lives by attacking our ancient enemies of illness and decrepitude. Casting aside the idea of mortality altogether, contributing editor Davide Castelvecchi describes " "--research we could do if an individual's career or life span were no obstacle. As Newton famously put it: "If I have seen further, it is by standing on the shoulders of giants." Following his model, we can use the process of science to exceed today's boundaries. Perhaps our only true limit is the human imagination itself. This article was originally published with the title "Out of Bounds" in Scientific American  307, 3, 6 (September 2012) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0912-6 September 1, 2012  --  Davide Castelvecchi September 1, 2012  --  Katherine Harmon September 1, 2012  --  Tim Folger September 1, 2012  --  James Vlahos September 1, 2012  --  John Pavlus Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.