Read Our Latest Issue Patients are tormented by creeping, crawling sensations in their skin, but docs say there is no evidence of bugs or parasites Last year, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) of a curious and controversial condition known as , which is characterized by creeping, crawling and stinging sensations under the skin.   , whose goal is to identify possible risk factors and causes, was prompted by pressure from afflicted people, along with the advocacy groups and Congressmen that represent them, according to CDC spokesperson Lola Russell. Many in the medical community question whether Morgellons is an infectious disease or a psychiatric disorder.  Morgellons has drawn increasing attention since 2002, when a Pittsburgh woman named Mary Leitao launched a describing skin sores and filamentlike structures emerging from her two-year-old son's s skin. After being inundated with e-mails from people complaining of similar symptoms, Leitao founded the to raise awareness and secure research funding for the bizarre condition. Since then, nearly 14,000 families have reported Morgellons cases to MRF, although the actual number may be higher, .  To learn more about Morgellons, which many patients believe is caused by , we consulted Michael Cappello, a pediatrics professor and infectious disease specialist at Yale University School of Medicine in New Haven, Conn.  [ ]   It is a skin condition that does not have an accepted medical definition. The name itself was given not by physicians per se--at least contemporary physicians--but by an advocacy group. [Leitao from 17th-century French doctors who observed a similar condition in children.]  Patients complain of sensations. They get wrapped up in the belief that there is something beneath their skin--an infectious agent, such as a --that can be extracted. They often try to pull that something out of their skin, which creates open sores. Patients will say, "I scratched and I pulled this living thing out of my skin."   Often they describe them as tiny fibers. [ , the fibers or "filaments" are "near microscopic" and may be white, blue, red or black. In addition to the filaments, there may also be black or white sandlike granules on or in the skin.].   Individuals and their physicians have sent me pictures of these filaments and skin samples purportedly containing them, but I have never found evidence of any parasites. Looking under the microscope, the samples look like amorphous skin, like a skin sample from a normal person might look. Some contain . And apart from my personal experience, I am not aware of any evidence in the scientific literature suggesting that these patients have infectious agents crawling under their skin.   Frequently, the patient's history and skin lesions are not consistent with what we know about infectious diseases. If, for example, a person had [a disease caused by the protozoan , often contracted via contact with soiled kitty litter, for example], he or she would have enlarged lymph nodes and flulike illness. Or if a patient had [a common parasitic infection in young children], he or she would have rectal itching. There are even parasitic infections that cause itching and skin manifestations, but none of them are consistent with the clinical presentation of Morgellons.  To my knowledge, there is no consistent feature of these skin lesions that have been linked to a dermatological diagnosis. They are self-inflicted.   They are clearing suffering. My interpretation is that the symptoms are most consistent with a .   Patients often become extremely invested in studying their condition. I've had people who send me photographs tell me that they have invested thousands of dollars on very sophisticated microscopes to track these so-called organisms living in their skin. [ , the condition also causes "joint pain, debilitating fatigue, changes in cognition, memory loss, mood disturbance and serious neurological manifestations."]  Not that I am aware of.   Since I have not in any instance seen evidence of a parasitic infection among patients with these symptoms, I have not been able to treat them for parasitic disease. I think that at its core this is a psychiatric condition, but I am not a psychiatrist and cannot prescribe psychiatric medications. I usually tell the primary care physician to consider the diagnosis of [a condition in which patients mistakenly believe they are infested with parasites].   I would suggest starting with a primary care physician and then consider seeing a psychiatrist if no dermatological or infectious condition can explain the symptoms. May 7, 2009  --  Katherine Harmon February 5, 2009  --  Coco Ballantyne December 8, 2008  --  Coco Ballantyne Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.