Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Despite rising floodwaters, Johnson Space Center continues critical space station operations NASA's Johnson Space Center (JSC) in Houston is closed today (Aug. 27) to all but mission-critical staff, due to . Mission Control, which oversees the operation of the International Space Station, "remains operational and fully capable of supporting [the station]," according to NASA's website. The main entrance to JSC, and many of the roads leading to JSC's other entrances, were flooded as of this morning, according to . (Since that update was posted this morning, rainfall has begun again in the area around JSC, which could mean flooding). On some of the flooded streets, cars have been abandoned on the roads, officials said. [ ] "Unless you are mission essential, stay off the road and stay safe," officials said in a post on the JSC website posted at 10:15 a.m. CDT (11:15 a.m. EDT/1515 GMT) today. A flash flood warning was in effect until 12:30 p.m. CDT (1:30 EDT/1730 GMT), the Communications on JSC emergencies Twitter account ( ). A tornado warning was also in effect for the area around JSC, until about 4:15 a.m. CDT (5:15 a.m./0915 GMT) today, the National Weather Service Houston Twitter account. Hurricane Harvey has been downgraded to a tropical storm, but continues to generate "a tremendous amount of rainfall over areas including Houston," according to the JSC emergency website. The storm has reportedly dropped 20 to 30 inches (50 to 75 centimeters) of rain on the Houston area already, . Five deaths have been reported in relation to the storm. Astronaut Jack Fischer, who is currently on the space station, has been posting pictures of the storm from space. "'Houston, we have a hurricane.' Our thoughts & prayers are with folks feeling Harvey's wrath, as dawn breaks after a long night of rain," Fischer wrote as a caption to a photo of the swirling cylone posted on Saturday morning (Aug. 26). 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.