Read Our Latest Issue The seeming paradox that a glass is at the same time a liquid and a
solid is not easily reconciled. Glasses are "solids" produced by cooling
a molten liquid fast enough that crystallization does not occur at the
normal freezing point. Instead, the liquid supercools into the
thermodynamic never-never land of metastability: kinetically settled
enough to exist as a well-defined state of matter, yet not truly
thermodynamically stable. As the supercooled liquid cools to lower and
lower temperatures, the viscosity of the liquid increases dramatically.
That happens because as thermal energy becomes ever less available,
chemical bonds within the liquid constrain the atomic motion more and
more. As the glass cools, the time it needs to demonstrate liquid behavior
(the "viscous relaxation time") increases and eventually reaches
extremes. At the so-called glass transition temperature, the relaxation
time is on the order of a few minutes. On a short timescale, the
"liquid" glass will appear solid, but after a short while, it can be
seen to be slowly flowing, like incredibly thick syrup. At still lower
temperatures, the relaxation time reaches values that are truly
geologic, i.e., many millions of years. Window glass at room temperature
has a nearly incalculable relaxation time, approaching the age of the
universe itself. For all practical observations, this glass is a solid.
But its solidity is in the eye of the beholder. (For more information about glass and glass making, see the Corning Glass Museum
web site.) 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.