Read Our Latest Issue Albinos around the world face day-to-day health issues, but in Africa they have a bigger problem: being hacked to death for body parts Albinos--people with white hair and skin, and often reddish eyes--are being mutilated and murdered for their body parts in Tanzania, . Sometimes as family members look on in horror, groups of machete-wielding men have chopped off the legs, heads, and genitals of albinos.  Among the dead: , a cassava farmer with two children, and a child murdered by his own father, according to .  The brutal killings -- 40 since 2007 -- are fueled by rumors that albino blood, skin, and hair have magical powers. People are actually weaving albino hair into their fishing nets and fashioning amulets with albino body parts, hoping that these devices will bring them riches, in a story profiling Canadian albino Peter Ash, founder of Under the Same Sun, an albinism advocacy organization aimed at shaming the Tanzanian government into stopping the murders.  The horrifying scenes pile onto the day-to-day issues albinos face: is a debilitating condition that causes vision loss, extreme sun-sensitivity, and sometimes embarrassment and stigma. Albinos have long been villainized in literature and pop culture--think , the evil monk in , or the in .  So what causes albinism, and are there any treatments? To find out, we checked in with , a professor of dermatology at the University of Cincinnati College of Medicine.      Albinism is a disease in which a person has partial or complete loss of pigmentation (coloring) of the , and .  Genetic mutations that affect the production of a pigment called . There is a cell called the melanocyte that is responsible for giving skin, hair, and eyes pigmentation. In albinism, the melanocytes are present, but genetic mutations interfere with their pigment production or their ability to distribute it to keratinocytes, the major cell type comprising the epidermis, or outer layer of the skin. There are currently five known genetic types of albinism, the most common being (OCA1) and (OCA2). Oculocutaneous means affecting the eyes and skin ("oculo" meaning eye and "cutaneous" meaning skin).  Patients with OCA1 have mutations in a gene called that is responsible for creating the enzyme tyrosinase, used by cells to convert the amino acid tyrosine into pigment molecules that color the skin, hair, and eyes. OCA2, the most common form of albinism in Africa, results from a mutation in the , which encodes the P protein. We don't know what this P protein does.   Most people with OCA1 have snow-white skin, snow-white hair, and no pigment in their eyes. The iris (colored part of the eye that encircles the pupil) is a pale bluish pinkish color, while the pupil may actually be red. This redness comes from light entering the pupil and reflecting off of blood vessels in the , the light-sensitive layer of tissue lining the back of the eyeball. Normally, the pupil appears black because pigment molecules in the retina absorb light entering the eye, preventing it from bouncing back to the outside world.  Those with OCA2 can make a small amount of pigment and thus may have light blond to brown hair color. Their irises are blue to light gray and their pupils dark red to light gray.   People with albinism are legally blind because photoreceptors (cells in the retina that detect light) get oversaturated with light and send confusing messages to the brain. If you look at a person with albinism, you'll see a , or fluttering, in their eyes; the eyes are sort of bouncing in their sockets because they are getting a confusing visual stimulus.  Without pigment in the skin, you are more susceptible to non-melanoma skin cancers in keratinocytes. Normally, melanocytes distribute pigment molecules to keratinocytes, where they act sort of like umbrellas shielding the nucleus (and the DNA inside) from the sun's UV radiation. Albinos are particularly at risk for , a cancer of the outermost layer of skin, and affecting deeper layers. They also may experience premature skin aging. Melanin helps prevents and elastosis (breakdown of elasticity) by blocking UV radiation.   No, there are not. Patients with albinism are advised to protect themselves from the sun.  Some researchers, such as , are trying to develop gene therapies, or drugs that would go into the cells and correct DNA mutations responsible for albinism. So far, scientists have had some success in correcting patches of depigmented skin and hair in mice, but they are a long way from translating this research to humans.   Any animal that has melanocytes can get albinism. That means virtually all mammals. Reptiles, amphibians and lower vertebrates can also be albinos, but these organisms may also have other types pigment production cells besides melanocytes, so they may not appear colorless. In the zoo here in Cincinnati, we had an .    The mutation in OCA2, which is responsible for most albinism cases in Africa, is probably the oldest mutation causing albinism and, putatively, originated during . For some reason, it's retained there. May 7, 2007 March 26, 2001 October 1, 2008  --  Melinda Wenner Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.