Read Our Latest Issue Natural pain moderation depends on the activation of a brain cell surface protein called the mu-opioid receptor. When we experience pleasure the brain is flooded with dopamine and the production of chemicals needed to activate the receptor drops off. Jon-Kar Zubieta of the University of Michigan and his colleagues studied the gene that controls the production of catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT), an enzyme that patrols the brain's interstices, breaking down dopamine and clearing the way for painkilling chemicals to switch on the mu-opioid receptor. There are two variations, or alleles, of the COMT gene, and and the COMT enzyme they encode differs by one amino acidvaline or methionine, respectively. Everyone has two copies of the gene, one from each parent. Because valine COMT breaks down dopamine more effectively than its methionine counterpart does, Zubietas team surmised that individuals carrying two copies of the allele would be best able to metabolize dopamine, thereby activating the brain's painkilling system most effectively. To test that hypothesis, the researchers conducted brain scans on volunteers while injecting salt water into their jaw muscles, mimicking a painful condition known as temporomandibular joint disorder. As predicted, subjects possessing two copies of were far less tolerant of the pain caused by the injections than those with two alleles; those carrying one of each fell in the middle. Last week, at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Denver, Colo., Zubieta presented preliminary data suggesting that the painkilling system of women is further affected by monthly variations in estrogen. When estrogen levels are lower, he believes, the brain is less able to subdue pain. "All of this work is helping tell us how important individual differences are in the experience of pain and other significant stressors," Zubieta comments. "Our findings and those of other groups underlie the need to think about pain, particularly prolonged or sustained pain, as the result of complex interfaces between injury and our own capacity to regulate its severity and significance." January 11, 2002  --  Sarah Graham July 13, 2001  --  Sarah Graham July 26, 1999  --  Kristin Leutwyler December 18, 2002  --  Sarah Graham Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.