Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue With new rapid-fire ways to communicate, e-mails are on the decline. But they might not be headed for extinction If your in-box is currently reporting unread messages in the hundreds or thousands, you might have a hard time believing the news: e-mail is on the decline. The total volume of e-mail has dropped about 10 percent since 2010. The word "e-mail" itself tells you about its origins: it was modeled on written letters. To this day, a lot of e-mail begins with a salutation. Maybe it's "Hey" instead of "Dear Casey," but it's there. And because there was so much overhead involved with sending a letter--folding, enveloping, addressing, stamping, mailing--few bothered to send only a few pithy words. The effort seemed to justify a longer message. Once heralded as the death of the personal human touch, e-mail has now taken over the letter's place as a ubiquitous form of communication--both business and personal. But is its day in the digital sun coming to a close? At first blush, that might seem to be the case. The incoming generation, after all, doesn't do e-mail. Oh, they might have an account. They use it only as we would a fax machine: as a means to communicate with old-school folks like their parents or to fulfill the sign-up requirements of Web sites. They rarely check it, though. As of just a few years ago, among 25- to 35-year-olds, e-mail had already dropped 18 percent--and among teenagers, it was down about 60 percent. A Microsoft human resources guy recently told me that lately, applications from recent college graduates leave the "e-mail address" field blank. It's considered too unwieldy, uncool, not immediate enough. Today's instant electronic memos--such as texting and Facebook and Twitter messages--are more direct, more concentrated, more efficient. They dispense with the salutation and the signoff; we already know the "to" and "from." Many corporations are moving to messaging networks for exactly that reason: more signal, less noise. And less time. This trend is further evidence that store-and-forward systems such as e-mail and voicemail are outdated. Instead of my leaving you a lengthy message that you pick up later, I can now send you an unobtrusive, easily consumed message that you can read--and respond to--on the go. The decline of e-mail corresponds neatly to the dawn of the mobile era. Let's face it: e-mail has historically been an . You sit down to do it. You fill up a block of time. And long missives are clumsy on a phone. But instantaneous written messages are different. These are neatly tailored to fit in just about any time: before a movie, in a taxi, waiting for lunch. And because these notes are invariably brief, they're a natural for smartphone typing. With these formats, you also have control over who can correspond with you, which you usually don't in e-mail. And especially on Facebook, instant messaging can take on the character of a chat room, where several people can carry on at once. As a bonus, none of these channels have been overrun by spam, and advertisers have yet to blast us that way. Does this mean e-mail is on its way to the dustbin of digital history? Was it just a transitional technology--from postal mail to the new, rapid-fire communication channels? Not necessarily. E-mail still has certain advantages. Whereas tweets and texts feel ephemeral--you read them, then they're gone, into an endless string--e-mail still feels like something you , that you can file, search and return to later. It's easy to imagine that it will continue to feel more appropriate for formal communications: agreements, important news, longer explanations. So, no, e-mail won't go away completely. Remember, we've been through a transition like this not so long ago: when e-mail was on the rise, people said that postal mail was dead. That's not how it works. Postal mail found its (smaller) niche, and so will e-mail. Technology rarely replaces an institution completely; it just adds new avenues. E-mail down, messaging up. Now go clean out your in-box. This article was originally published with the title "Is E-mail Dead?" in Scientific American  312, 3, 27 (March 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0315-27 Pros and cons of e-mail alternatives: David Pogue is the anchor columnist for Yahoo Tech and host of several miniseries on PBS. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.