Search a 4,000-word database to see how language in the magazine evolved over time Moritz Stefaner, based in Germany, is an independent designer and consultant with a background in cognitive science and interface design. His work balances analytical and aesthetic aspects in mapping complex phenomena to support data-driven decision-making. Moritz Stefaner, based in Germany, is an independent designer and consultant with a background in cognitive science and interface design. His work balances analytical and aesthetic aspects in mapping complex phenomena to support data-driven decision-making. We invite you to dive in and explore a database of words that appeared prominently in the print history of . Below, each year of that history is represented by a single word, which was selected through a text-analysis project that started with all 5,107 issues of the magazine. Words whose relative frequency peaked in each individual year were identified. Among those top contenders, the single noun, verb, adjective or adverb that was used most often was deemed the winner. The line charts, which reflect the frequency of each word over time from 1845 ( ) to 2020 ( ), are scaled to the maximum value. To learn more about how the data were collected, analyzed and visualized, see " ." As science historian Lorraine Daston wrote in an essay for our special : "Science has never been speechless. Scientific journals began in the 17th century, and since then, science has been all about communication--first and foremost between scientists and other scientists, but also with a broader public fascinated by the latest discoveries, inventions and speculations about fossils, electricity, atoms, computers, genes and galaxies.... It is entirely in keeping with the visual spirit of scientific communication that the very words used in all 5,107 issues of since 1845 should be turned into an image. [In this , you'll see] word frequencies undulate, soaring and plunging as a function of time to track the way science talked about itself to itself." To read more from Daston--and for a guided graphical tour of popular words paired with key moments in the history of the magazine--see " Have you found fun patterns or interesting word juxtapositions? Share your screenshots and thoughts on social media using the hashtags #SciAm175 and #ScienceWords. Sign up for 's free newsletters. Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.