Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The agency will require new warnings on medication labels Regulators in the US will require new warnings be added to the labels of certain anesthetic and sedation drugs, the Food and Drug Administration announced Wednesday, indicating that use of the drugs could possibly . The warnings will apply to children under 3 and to pregnant women during their third trimester, and pertain to procedures that last longer than three hours or to repeated exposure to the drugs. A single short exposure to general anesthesia has to have negative brain effects for children. However, has found an association between greater exposure to the drugs before age 3 and problems with learning and behavior, including an increased risk of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. The studies were observational and did not establish a causative effect between the drugs and the developmental issues. Other studies have found . The FDA said the question needs to be studied further. Animal studies have shown that lengthy or multiple experiences with anesthesia can lead and problems with the among brain cells. will be required to add the warnings to their labels, though the exact language was not included in the FDA's announcement. FDA recommended that clinicians balance the possible risk of multiple exposures to anesthesia against what kind of procedure is required. It noted that anesthesia is required for many surgeries, including lifesaving ones, and that untreated pain can also hurt children's nervous systems. "We recognize that in many cases these exposures may be medically necessary and these new data regarding the potential harms must be carefully weighed against the risk of not performing a specific medical procedure," Dr. Janet Woodcock, the director of FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, said in a statement. STAT delivers fast, deep, and tough-minded journalism. We take you inside science labs and hospitals, biotech boardrooms, and political backrooms. We dissect crucial discoveries. We examine controversies and puncture hype. We hold individuals and institutions accountable. We introduce you to the power brokers and personalities who are driving a revolution in human health. These are the stories that matter to us all. June 30, 2015  --  Dina Fine Maron October 24, 2015  --  Dina Fine Maron Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.