Read Our Latest Issue Chemist Paul Wentworth, Jr., of the Scripps Research Institute and his colleagues tested such byproducts--known as atheronals-- These molecules form when ozone and cholesterol interact. "Cholesterol makes up 40 percent of most of your membranes, including those in your lungs," Wentworth explains. "If you inspire smog, there directly is the interaction." The team's previous research had shown that the white blood cells responsible for inflaming arterial walls also produce ozone and, ultimately, the atheronals: atheronal-a and atheronal-b. These compounds are present in the plaque removed from clogged arteries. The new research shows that when the atheronals interact with various blood cells, they produce some of the effects known to lead to heart disease, such as causing a malfunction in the cells that line arterial walls. "The atheronals can actually cause all the relative aspects that are known to promote cardiovascular disease," Wentworth notes. It remains unclear whether the atheronals typically derive from interactions in the bloodstream or in the lungs. "My sense is that it's a combination of both," Wentworth says. And more research will be needed to determine whether atheronal levels in the blood speed the onset of heart disease such as atherosclerosis. Nevertheless, the scientists write: "the atheronals may be a heretofore unrecognized chemical player in the known linkage between environmental pollution and cardiovascular disease." The research will appear in the June 13 issue of David Biello is a contributing editor at . November 7, 2003  --  Sarah Graham March 12, 2002  --  Sarah Graham Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.