Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Also: and by Jack Horner and James Gorman. Dutton, 2009 A more accurate title would be How to Genetically Modify a Chicken. But How to Build a Dinosaur is definitely catchier--and harmless. The subtitle is less sanguine. Extinction, certainly of really ancient creatures, is forever, as the authors themselves make clear. But back to that chicken. Horner, a well-known paleontologist (his co-author is a writer for the New York Times), confides that he has kept a chicken skeleton at hand wherever he has worked, because it looks like a dinosaur. "Sometimes," he writes, "I look at it and turn it ... and think, if I could just grow these bones a little different, tilt this one way, that another, I'd have a dinosaur." That skeleton started out as an embryo, he reasons, so why couldn't we biochemically nudge a chicken embryo this way and that, "until what hatched was not a chicken but a small dinosaur, with teeth, forearms with claws, and a tail?" The book describes how this might be done--someday. by Amos Nur, with Dawn Burgess. Princeton University Press, 2008 The outsider may be surprised to learn that earth scientists and archaeologists disagree strongly about what caused the destruction of ancient civilizations. Archaeologists hold that human events--war in particular--crushed these societies; earth scientists lean toward natural causes--earthquakes in particular. Stanford University geophysicist Nur offers detailed evidence for the controversial earthquake theory. Troy, Jericho, Knossos, Mycenae, Armageddon, Teotihuacan and Petra, he argues, were all located along fault lines or in regions prone to earthquakes. He corroborates this scientific evidence with written records from the Bible, the Iliad and other documents that describe events that could have been earthquakes. Photographs by Karl Ammann. Text by Dale Peterson. University of California Press, 2009 "Good photography depends only partly on the artistic skill of the photographer. It also surely depends on the artistic value of the subject. We look at this collection of elephant reflections not simply to admire the talent and skill of Karl Ammann but also, and even more fully, to reflect on the drama and glamour and mystery of real elephants." For a slideshow of photographs from the book, go to : Science and Literature by Carl Djerassi. University of Wisconsin Press, 2008 Written by one of the inventors of oral contraceptives, these two plays dramatize the social transformations and controversies created by advances in reproductive technology. by A. Van Jordan. W. W. Norton, 2009 Physicists--most often Einstein--as well as physics itself inhabit these poems. by David Eagleman. Pantheon, 2009 A neuroscientist presents in novelistic vignettes a variety of possibilities for the world that comes after death. This article was originally published with the title "Dinochicken Acts of God Nature's Masterpiece" in Scientific American  300, 6, 82-83 (June 2009) 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.