Read Our Latest Issue A week of origins, starting with our own back in the 19th century Every year produces a single-topic issue, and this time we're tackling the theme of origins: our September issue explores 57 innovations and insights that shape our world today. As an added bonus, we're presenting several related online-only features, including a weeklong posting of 10 additional origins stories as well as a special slide show. And what better way to launch our special week of origins stories than with one about our own? Most people who have studied some science have heard of , and even the young texting generation might be aware that it comes out in print once a month. But would you have guessed that is the oldest continuously published magazine in the U.S.? Founded by inventor Rufus Porter, the first issue appeared as a large format newspaper in 1845--in fact, our 164th birthday happens next Friday, on August 28. But , as Porter called it, hardly resembles today's publication (we've long since dropped the "the"). In the , under the logo and scrolling leaves and flowers, a slogan reads: "The Advocate of Industry and Enterprise, and Journal of Mechanical and Other Improvements." The focused mostly on patents and advice for inventors. After 10 months, Porter sold to Orson Desaix Munn and Alfred Ely Beach for $800--about $23,000 in today's dollars using the consumer price index (but about $5.65 million using as a measure). The magazine began its modern incarnation after World War II. In 1948, Gerard Piel, Dennis Flanagan and Donald Miller purchased the publication from Munn & Company and founded Scientific American, Inc. In their quest to increase the immediacy, timeliness and authority of the magazine, they insisted that the majority of the articles be written by the people who actually did the work described--a unique distinction among consumer magazines. has greatly expanded its offerings since then. Besides the Web site, launched in 1996, we publish the bimonthly (begun in 2004) and have 15 international editions. We are now owned by and are part of the . You can read the . Philip Yam is the managing editor of , responsible for the overall news content online. He began working at the magazine in 1989, first as a copyeditor and then as a features editor specializing in physics. He is the author of . September 1, 2009  --  THE EDITORS Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.