Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Could mirror molecules in space help explain why life prefers molecules with a single-handedness? Chiral molecules are those that come in two forms: versions that are mirror images of one another but cannot be superimposed, like right and left hands. Life seems to prefer molecules of a single chemical handedness, however. All DNA, for example, twists clockwise like the threads on a right-handed screw. Nearly all amino acids, meanwhile, are left-handed. Why one or the other? "It's pretty well established that once an excess [of one chirality] is present, life is going to go with it," says Brett McGuire, an astrochemist at the National Radio Astronomy Observatory in Charlottesville, Va. For instance, if DNA came in both forms, its strands would not fit together, and life probably would not have gotten far. Although it is possible such an excess originated with meteors that brought mostly one type of molecule or another to Earth early in its history, another hypothesis suggests the origins of chirality are much older. As reported in , McGuire and his colleagues have discovered a chiral molecule in interstellar space. The compound, propylene oxide, exists in Sagittarius B2, a cloud of gas and dust near the center of the Milky Way. The observation shows that chiral molecules were present "way before solar systems," says P. Brandon Carroll of the California Institute of Technology and a co-author of the paper. If these types of molecules were mostly right-handed, they could have seeded the formation of other right-handed molecules, ultimately including DNA, long before our sun first shone. If so, that right-handed excess could have been baked into Earth's chemistry as it was forming rather than being added by meteors after the fact. NASA astrochemist Stefanie Milam says the implications are "huge" for astrobiology because they suggest that at least some of the complex chemistry associated with life is present elsewhere in the universe. Others are skeptical. Arizona State University biochemist Sandra Pizzarello, who has studied chiral molecules in meteorites, says connecting the observations to DNA chirality could be difficult. "We are still left wondering what happens" on the long path between molecular clouds and the origins of life, she says. McGuire is now testing whether a majority of the propylene oxide molecules are right- or left-handed. This article was originally published with the title "Mirror Molecules in Space" in Scientific American  315, 3, 14 (September 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0916-14 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.