Read Our Latest Issue  For hundredsperhaps thousandsof years, casual observers have 
noticed the seasonal movements of birds. Early observers speculated about where birds went after departing each fall, but until fairly recently no one knew for sure. All that changed in 1899 when Chris Mortensen of Denmark, a high 
school biology teacher, captured European Starlings in his backyard 
and placed metal rings on their legs. Each ring was inscribed with a 
unique number and instructions to correspond with Mortensen if one of 
his birds was found. In short order, marked starlings were being 
recovered across Europe andas folks wrote to inquire about the 
ringsMortensen and the scientific community realized how valuable 
ringing could be in helping to understand bird movement. This practice 
of capturing and marking birds crossed the Atlantic in about 1910, 
but here it has always been called "banding" instead of "ringing." Today the Bird Banding Laboratory of the U.S. Geological Survey 
authorizes the work of about 3,000 licensed bird banders. Many are 
affiliated with state or federal wildlife agencies; others are 
independent researchers, university professors or graduate students. 
Together they band more than a million birds every year. Only about 
2 percent of these birds are ever encountered again away from the 
original banding area, but that's enough to help ornithologists make 
reliable conclusions about bird migration, longevity, site fidelity, 
populations and behavior. Hilton Pond Center for Piedmont Natural History in north-central South Carolina is a banding station where more than 34,500 birds have been banded from 1982 through March 2001. The following results illustrate the kinds of information that can be derived through a banding program: -An immature male Hooded Warbler, banded in August 1987 at Hilton 
Pond during fall migration, was netted the following May on breeding 
grounds near Chapel Hill, N.C., by a graduate student 
studying this species. (Hooded Warblers overwinter primarily in 
Central America.) -Two Pine Siskins, banded at York a year apart in the winters of 
1987 and 1988, were re-trapped an hour apart in May 1988 at Duluth, 
Minn. (The straight-line air distance between Hilton Pond and Duluth is 990 miles.) -A White-Throated Sparrow, banded on April 15, 1990, was caught and 
killed by a cat 970 miles away and only 16 days later at Lake la 
Ligne, Quebec. (Cats are responsible for far too many recoveries of 
banded birds.) -A Purple Finch, banded at Hilton Pond (not far from the southern 
edge of its winter range) was found dead 1,660 miles away at 
Lewisporte, Newfoundland (the very northern limit of the breeding 
range for this species). -A male Northern Cardinal that was banded at Hilton Pond as a 
juvenile male in July 1993 has been re-trapped several times each year 
since then, most recently in March 2001, when the bird was in its 
ninth year. -Although Ruby-Throated Hummingbirds are banded at Hilton Pond from 
late March through mid-October, 40 percent of 2,315 hummers have been 
captured in the month of August. Other banders have derived similar and even more amazing information though their research, but banding doesn't work unless the public reports the birds they find. Anytime a bird hits a kitchen window, for example, it's important for the homeowner to check for a band and report the number. The finder can contact a local bander, wildlife official or university biology department, or call the Bird Banding Lab toll-free at 800-327-BAND. By reporting a banded bird, the 
finder may help discover something brand-new about bird migration 
that just 100 years ago people could only speculate about. November 14, 2000  --  Kristin Leutwyler August 1, 1999  --  Christina Reed Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.