Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world Vampire bats monitored at the Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute have fewer interactions with family and friends when ill, biologists . But they do not seem to stay apart intentionally--instead sick bats are simply too lethargic to call out to or groom one another. The last fully intact ice shelf in Canada into the Arctic Ocean this summer. Located in the territory of Nunavut, the Milne Ice Shelf lost 80 square kilometers of ice--40 percent of its area--in just two days. Living 6,700 meters above sea level, a yellow-rumped leafeared mouse at the summit of the dormant volcano Llullaillaco is the highest-dwelling mammal ever documented. It remains unclear how the animal survives the oxygen scarcity and freezing temperatures at this elevation. An analysis of ancient woolly rhino DNA from Siberia that the population size was stable for thousands of years before the mammal's extinction 14,000 years ago, suggesting that a warming climate--not hunting by humans--most likely triggered its demise. Paleoanthropologists a 1.4-million-year old hand ax made from a hippo's leg bone. Together with recently discovered stone tools, the ax indicates that had a diverse tool kit several hundred thousand years earlier than scientists had suspected. Contrary to researchers' expectations, methane-eating microbes to rapidly contain the first methane leak detected on the Antarctic seafloor. The finding means more of the potent greenhouse gas may have been pouring into the atmosphere than previously thought. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  323, 5, 22 (November 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1120-22a was a 2020 AAAS Mass Media Fellow at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.