Read Our Latest Issue We asked a number of physicists for their reaction to the announcement of neutrinos breaking the cosmic speed limit A few dozen nanoseconds, an imperceptibly slim interval in everyday life, can make all the difference in experimental physics. A European physics collaboration made a stunning announcement September 23, after having clocked elementary particles called neutrinos making the underground journey from a lab in Switzerland to one in Italy. The neutrinos made the trip than they would have traveling at light speed, the researchers found. Faster, that is, than the rules of physics as we understand them would allow.  If confirmed, the results from the OPERA (Oscillation Project with Emulsion-tRacking Apparatus) collaboration would be huge, a once-in-a-lifetime revolution in how we understand the universe. But there are plenty of reasons to believe that Albert Einstein's long-reigning theory of , as it has withstood so many in the past. ( .)  That is the opinion of a number of physicists we contacted, many of them on . Their reactions to the OPERA announcement appear below.  Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence. I think it will be perceived in retrospect as an embarrassment that this claim received so much publicity--the inevitable consequence of posting a preprint on the Web. Neutrinos were observed from more or less coincidentally with the explosion--not four years earlier, as would have been the case if the velocity difference had been the same as is now claimed (though, of course, the energies of the supernova neutrinos are much lower). The report of this experiment is pretty impressive, but it bothers me that there is plenty of evidence that all sorts of other particles never travel faster than light, while observations of neutrinos are exceptionally difficult.* It is as if someone said that there are fairies in the bottom of their garden, but they can only be seen on dark, foggy nights. It is an embarrassment as far as I am concerned. It was not unreasonable for the experimentalists to submit a paper with an unexplained result. But a press conference on a result, which is unlikely to be correct, before the paper has been refereed, is very unfortunate--for CERN and for science. Once it is shown to be wrong, everyone loses credibility. Neutrino experiments are hard, and systematic errors at the limit of resolution can be significant. Moreover, because the experiment appears to violate Lorentz invariance, which is at the heart of so much known physics, one should be skeptical. One should be additionally skeptical because observations of SN 1987A showed, , that neutrinos and photons travel at the same speed to one part in a billion, several orders of magnitude below the claimed effect. Now, the only way out of that is to have some energy-dependent effect, but all the ones that make sense don't wash here. There must be a more mundane explanation for the results. Let's hope we can find it. I think it is fair to say that many of us are stunned. This is an extraordinary result and we cannot even perceive all the implications if this result were true. All of modern physics as we know and teach is based on Einstein's special and general theories of relativity. If this effect were shown to be true, I would consider this the physics revolution of the century.  As an experimentalist, we are all very cautious of such extraordinary results. I watched the Webcast from CERN ... and was impressed by the detailed and careful work presented by the OPERA collaboration in their talk. However, even for a neutrino expert it is difficult to follow and understand all the technical details that enter this measurement. There could be systematic effects that have not been accounted for. Independent experimental tests are needed. While this experimental group is very good and competent, neutrino experiments are notoriously difficult to perform. This experiment is particularly ambitious. One has to wait for a confirmation.  Neutrinos are fast, but science news travel faster! It seems that the experimentalists were very careful, but this is really BIG news....  There are certain misunderstandings with people who are very cynical now: Even if true, this result neither proves Einstein wrong nor implies that causality has to be violated and time travel is possible. Things can move faster than the speed of light without violating Einstein if either the speed of light is not the limiting velocity as one can observe it for light propagation in media such as, for example, water. This can be modeled with background fields in the vacuum as has been proposed by [Indiana University physicist] Alan Kostelecky.  Or spacetime could be warped in a way so that neutrinos can take a shortcut without really being faster than the speed of light. As our three space plus one time dimensions look pretty flat, (as proposed by [University of Hawaii at Manoa physicist] Sandip Pakvasa, [Vanderbilt University physicist] Tom Weiler and myself).  On the other hand, if something moves faster than the speed of light, causality violations--aka time travel--may be a possibility ( as proposed by [Vanderbilt physicist] James Dent, Pakvasa, Weiler and myself). And that, of course, would have really crazy and mind-boggling consequences, but even there can [there] be scenarios which are contradictory.  So, in short, this is really exciting. But since it is so exciting, I'm not sure whether one should be too optimistic that it will survive the tests of other experiments. John Matson is a former reporter and editor for who has written extensively about astronomy and physics. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.