Read Our Latest Issue The doctor's firsthand experience with epidemics gives him a unique view of our current health crisis When a virus that no one has ever seen before spreads across the globe in mere months, science must race to find answers to some very hard questions: How fast will COVID-19 proliferate? How many will get sick? Can our health systems withstand the onslaught of this new illness? Will there be a vaccine anytime soon? As we wait for those answers, many of us sit and watch and read the news--at a social distance, it is hoped--without knowing exactly what to do or what the near future will hold. This moment may feel like it is without precedent, but is only have involved other viruses with different patterns of transmission, how the world community came together to deal with them at the time can offer some relevant lessons today. has spent his career fighting epidemics. As a doctor working for the World Health Organization in the 1970s, he helped to stamp out smallpox. It remains the only human disease to ever be in our history. COVID-19 is not the same as smallpox. The latter is in a class of diseases known as , which are only transmissible from human to human. It is believed that smallpox in East Africa between 4,000 and 3,000 years ago. In contrast, COVID-19 is a zoonotic disease, which means it passed to humans from an animal host. (There is good evidence to suggest it may have originated Given that situation, there is of eradicating this novel coronavirus. To do so would mean vaccinating both humans and the animals that carry it. But humans deploy our public health resources across the world to fight it. In --a collaboration between and --Brilliant describes the dynamics at play in both the eradication of smallpox and the fight to cure polio while reflecting on what insights those diseases offer us in this time of uncertainty. is the senior multimedia editor in charge of video and podcasts at . Karen M. Sughrue is a senior producer at Retro Report. Karen has worked as a producer at 60 Minutes, where her stories included the growing knowledge gap with American boys falling behind girls in school, an expose of the U.S. military's "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy and the impact of the one-child policy on Chinese society today. Karen also served as Executive Producer of CBS News Face the Nation and Berlin Bureau Chief covering the fall of the Berlin Wall and the Soviet Union. March 23, 2020  --  Sara Goudarzi February 5, 2020  --  Jeffery DelViscio, Tanya Lewis and Amanda Montanez January 31, 2020  --  THE EDITORS Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.