Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue New drugs for women are passing through key trials Doctors now consider HIV infection to be a chronic disease rather than a death sentence because of the success of antiretroviral drugs (ARVs), which stop the infection's progression to AIDS. With that success in hand, the top priority is now prevention. The choices available to most of the world--abstinence, condoms and male circumcision--are not doing enough; more than 6,000 people contract HIV every day. And those methods are especially problematic for women, who, because of social and economic circumstances, often have less control over their options. As an alternative for women, scientists are testing a new class of antiretroviral drugs, called ARV microbicides, that prevent HIV infection altogether. Researchers have fashioned the microbicides into an array of devices currently undergoing human trials. "These are extremely promising products," says Robert Grant, an AIDS expert at the University of California, San Francisco. "I'm optimistic we can end HIV, but for too long we've been looking for the holy grail, a single product to prevent HIV. It's not one size fits all." Here are three of the microbicide options in development today. Placed in the vagina, this silicone ring releases the ARV drug dapivirine for one month. Dapivirine is a reverse transcriptase inhibitor: a drug that blocks HIV's replication from RNA to DNA, halting its takeover of human cells. More than 5,000 African women are testing the ring in two phase III clinical trials that will end in 2016. If safe and effective, it could become a two-in-one device: researchers are developing a dapivirine ring with birth control to prevent both HIV and pregnancy. Tenofovir gel, another reverse transcriptase inhibitor, comes in a tamponlike applicator that women use both before and after sexual intercourse.* The clear gel was the first microbicide to indicate significant reduction in HIV in humans in a large clinical trial; in the study, which had nearly 900 women participating, the gel reduced infection by 54 percent in women who used it consistently. Researchers are continuing to test its effectiveness at nine sites in South Africa. Those results are expected in early 2015.** Raltegravir gel could someday offer what the others do not: protection against HIV when applied sex. Raltegravir stops HIV late in its life cycle, just before the virus integrates into the human chromosome. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention evaluated the gel in macaques in March and found it highly effective in preventing infection up to three hours after exposure. If it passes future trials and becomes an option, it could give women a backup, especially in cases of sexual assault.    This article was originally published with the title "How to Curb an Epidemic" in Scientific American  311, 1, 24 (July 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0714-24 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.