Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world Britons have a reputation for heavy drinking, but research from the University of Sheffield found that only about 10 percent of adults regularly consume large amounts of alcohol in one sitting, making the unhealthy behavior still common but not rampant. Fossilized 21-million-year-old monkey teeth unearthed during expansion work on the Panama Canal are the first evidence of the mammal's presence in North America. Most researchers previously thought New World monkeys evolved in isolation in South America before the continent connected with its northern counterpart 3.5 million years ago. Oceanographers were surprised to find that a 9,300-square-kilometer coral reef system thrives at the mouth of the Amazon River. The reef, which exists in a pocket of clear water in an otherwise muddy river, has fewer species than is typical for a coral reef but is still a hotbed of marine life. A humanoid robot recovered a vase and other artifacts from the wreckage of , a 17th-century French ship that lies off the country's southern coast at a depth of 100 meters. Stanford University roboticist Oussama Khatib built the device with dexterous humanlike hands and controlled its movements via his own from a nearby boat. The country's space agency launched the seventh and final satellite needed to create its own GPS system. The U.S., Russia, China and Europe also have dedicated satellite-navigation networks. Fixed-wing drones are scheduled to start delivering blood and emergency medicine to remote clinics this summer. The drones can autonomously navigate to 21 facilities and travel up to 120 kilometers in one trip. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  315, 1, 18 (July 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0716-18 For more details, visit 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.