Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Communication with the placenta is key to ensuring body parts grow at the same rate Species with symmetrical body plans have been roaming the earth for about 400 million years. Human beings have long shown an intense interest in this property in our own species--take the importance of symmetry in perceptions of beauty or the famous depiction of the outstretched human body in Leonardo da Vinci's . Now scientists have gone a step further. Alberto Rosello-Diez, a developmental biologist currently at the Australian Regenerative Medicine Institute at Monash University, led a study of how a mouse fetus maintains symmetry as it develops. By making one of the fetus's limbs grow more slowly than the other, the team observed how cells communicate to ultimately correct the asymmetry. No study had successfully examined this phenomenon until now. After a year of failed attempts, Rosello-Diez and his team created a model in mice. Borrowing a technique previously developed for modifying cells in a laboratory dish, the researchers injected into the mouse fetus's left hind leg a type of cell that restricted the leg's growth. They found that the cells surrounding the suppressed tissue communicated with the placenta, which then signaled the rest of the organism's tissues--including the other hind leg--to slow their growth until the hindered limb caught up. Then, uniform growth resumed. The findings were published in June in . Think of this process as a "three-legged race," says Kim Cooper, a cell and developmental biologist at the University of California, San Diego, who was not involved in the study. "If one person is going faster, it's harder to stay in sync. This placenta mechanism makes it possible for the slower one to catch up," Cooper says. The study offers insight into limb development and so-called catch-up growth. But the research also raises new questions: for example, once the limb has reached the same level of growth, how does the other limb know to start growing again? "We kind of expect symmetry in our limbs," says Adrian Halme, a cell biologist at the University of Virginia, who was also not involved with the study. "But how they achieve that symmetry is really striking." This article was originally published with the title "Body Balance" in Scientific American  319, 4, 16 (October 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1018-16b Maya Miller is an editorial intern for . June 24, 2015  --  Sabrina Imbler May 24, 2018  --  Sara Reardon and Nature magazine July 7, 2018  --  Elizabeth Preston and Quanta Magazine Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.