Read Our Latest Issue Enjoy and loop on You probably know the GIF as the perfect vehicle for sharing memes and reactions. We believe the format can go further, that it has real power to capture science and explain research in short, digestible loops. So kick off your week right with this GIF-able science. Enjoy and loop on. Illicit opioids have killed Americans living in every state. Nearly of an opioid-related overdose during 1999-2017. That toll is equivalent to wiping out the population of New Orleans. Increasingly, synthetic opioids such as fentanyl and are and the authorities are struggling to keep up; of fentanyl alone jumped from a few hundred in 2012 to nearly 14,000 in 2015. These drugs are also nearly impossible to chemically identify in the field. And their extreme potency--just can kill an average-sized man--has the for the safety of agents and officers handling drug busts. (There is, it should be noted, about how much of a threat accidental exposure to fentanyl really poses.) A new, developed at Harvard University could help enforcement agents identify drugs in the field. It uses a process called to separate out components of a sample by density. The technique has been around for nearly two decades, The device uses two large magnets to levitate substances inside a magnetized solution. The drug powders will not dissolve in the hydrophobic, or water-fearing, solution; instead, they hang suspended in layers of varying density. Since the researchers know the density of each drug, they can identify what is in the powder. The estimated cost for each unit is between $30 and $200, depending on the size of the magnets employed. The DEA is already helping the researchers collect data, in hopes of certifying the maglev device for forensic analysis. --JD Rarely has one little GIF shown quite so much. You are watching more than 10 billion suns being born over two billion years of time. Let that sink in. And yet, this is just a short snippet of a much longer created by researchers in Germany and the United States, called The spans 13.8 billion years and shows how supernovae and supermassive black holes might affect the flow of cosmic gas. In the simulation, 20 billion particles represent all the stars, dark matter, cosmic gas, magnetic fields and black holes in a cube stretching 230 million light-years across. The outflows of gas in this GIF reach speeds of more than . The computing power that made this simulation possible is equally impressive. The program ran for 26 months on the in Germany. It required 16,000 computing cores working day and night for a full year or " ." The results are stunning and should remind us of how very small we are in this very large universe. Make sure to watch the high-resolution view of the simulation . --JD Water scarcity is a worsening problem in many low-resource communities and is one barrier to clean, functioning . Now a team of materials scientists at Pennsylvania State University has developed a promising potential solution--at least to the toilet problem: an ultraslippery coating that prevents liquid and solid waste from sticking to the toilet bowl, halving the amount of water needed to flush. The researchers say it is more effective than existing hydrophobic coatings for toilets. The new coating, called liquid-entrenched smooth surface (LESS), is built from two layers. First, researchers spray the inside of the toilet bowl with a silicone material called polydimethylsiloxane, which forms chains of long, stringy molecules known as polymers. The ends of these chains fix themselves to the toilet surface, forming a permanent base layer of "nanohairs." The researchers then spray a super thin layer of silicone oil lubricant on top. The hydrophobic polymers that make up the base layer shed water but attract the silicone oil, keeping the lubricant in place for about 500 flushes, after which more silicone must be applied. The concept was inspired by the carnivorous , which has tubelike leaves with slippery interior surfaces that cause unlucky insects to slide into its trap.--Viviane Callier For more, read the full story .    -- For more, read the full story . is the senior multimedia editor in charge of video and podcasts at . Kelso Harper is a multimedia science journalist. She has a degree in chemistry from Johns Hopkins University and is currently pursuing a Masters of Science at MIT. Sophie Bushwick is an associate editor at , covering technology. Credit: Nick Higgins Viviane Callier is a freelance science writer based in North Bethesda, Md. Credit: Nick Higgins November 4, 2019  --  Kelso Harper and Jeffery DelViscio October 28, 2019  --  Kelso Harper October 7, 2019  --  Kelso Harper and Jeffery DelViscio Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.