Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the November 2010 issue of Michael D. Lemonick's " " seems to suffer from a common misconception. Lemonick tends to avoid any distinction between skepticism and denial when referencing so-called climate skeptics. At the same time, he makes much of the rigidity so evident among some in the majority. Such portrayal does an injustice to serious proponents on all sides of the issue. To refer to all those in disagreement as "skeptics" implies that the vast majority of climate scientists then are credulous. Skepticism--true skepticism, not the intractable bias characteristic of denial--is absolutely fundamental to the scientific method. I would submit that if but a single attribute can be said to characterize climate science in the hostile public policy milieu of recent years, it is surely skepticism. Whatever their position on a topic or their bias toward a conclusion, true skeptics will ultimately follow the evidence where it leads. Deniers, on the other hand, interpret that same evidence only as it might support their foregone conclusions. The gulf between these mind-sets is wide. In an age already rife with misinformation and scientific illiteracy, that difference should be acknowledged by scientists and journalists alike and at every opportunity.  Michael Moyer's " " [Advances] got me doing just that, but I did not compare electric cars with other Japanese or U.S. cars. Rather I looked to German-made cars sold in the U.S. I own a 2004 VW turbodiesel station wagon. On a recent 600-mile trip on the interstates, I averaged 52 miles per gallon. I am told the latest version of this model--which sells for only $16,000--would have made 57. Why would I want to buy a Toyota Prius when I can get two Jettas for the same money? In Europe, about half of all new cars sold are now diesels, some of which are more fuel-efficient than a Prius. The irony is that both GM and Ford make respectable turbodiesels in Europe but declined to make any of them in North America, presumably because they feared the high EPA cleanliness standard that VW, Mercedes and BMW were able to meet. Surely it would make more sense for them to license clean diesel technology from VW and produce those cars here.  In David Biello's " " [Advances], Greg Graffin is quoted as saying that there are no good songs about science, but he ignores the work of Monty Python in their seminal "Galaxy Song." It may not appeal to Graffin's punk preferences, but not only is the song's science apparently plausible, it is also tuneful and the best song I know that begins and ends with the performer in a refrigerator.  In " ," Jonathan Feng and Mark Trodden explain that the dark matter candidates called super-WIMPs interact only through gravity. That means they cannot undergo the type of collisions that dissipate energy (or hardly any collisions at all) the way ordinary particles do, primarily turning kinetic energy into electromagnetic energy, in the form of photons. "When created, super-WIMPs would have been moving at a significant fraction of the speed of light," the authors write, adding that "they would have taken time to come to rest." In purely gravitational interactions, energy is nearly conserved. The only possible mechanism for individual super-WIMPs to lose kinetic energy is to convert a tiny bit of it into gravitational radiation. If super-WIMPs essentially cannot interact, how can they come to rest?  I read with interest in Mary Carmichael's " " the idea of vaccinating mosquitoes by using a human carrier to pass the vaccine on to the mosquito. Couldn't you use other mammals such as livestock instead, thereby eliminating the ethical dilemma of vaccinating people who will not directly benefit?  Plasmodium falciparum P. vivax This article was originally published with the title "Letters" in Scientific American  304, 3, 8-10 (March 2011) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0311-8 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.