Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Dinosaurs have certainly become a lot prettier in the decades since I was a child. But I wonder if these splashes of color, such as seen in the images in "Triumph of the Titans," by Kristina A. Curry Rogers and Michael D. D'Emic, have gone too far. Among living creatures today, none of the larger land animals sport elaborate color schemes. And in the smaller critters, color has evolved as a camouflage, something that would have little or no success on an animal the size of an elephant--or an John Byrne  . . In "The Trouble with Wi-Fi," by David Pogue [TechnoFiles], Don Millman of Point of Presence Technologies responds that the reason high-end hotels charge for Wi-Fi is that they "attract business travelers who expense their stays." While this is not incorrect, the answer is more complex. For example, most high-end resorts serve more leisure travelers than business guests but charge for Wi-Fi. High-end hotels are mostly operated by brand management companies with fees based on a percentage of total revenue; most less expensive hotels are franchised, and their fees are based on room revenue only. Thus, there is an incentive for brand management companies to maximize their revenue--for example, by charging for Wi-Fi--and an incentive for less expensive franchised hotels to have higher room rates--for example, by including Wi-Fi in the rate. But the most correct answer is that guests in more expensive hotels are more willing to accept charges for Wi-Fi. A reason to charge separately for Wi-Fi is that if it were included in the room rate, municipal occupancy taxes would be based on the higher room rate, and therefore the rate would be more costly for guests. Bjorn Hanson  ,   The new unitarity approach, a method of analyzing quantum-particle processes less complex than the Feynman diagrams that have been the standard, proposed by Zvi Bern, Lance J. Dixon and David A. Kosower in "Loops, Trees and the Search for New Physics," doesn't seem new. Applying estimates of probabilities to beginning and prior events in a causal chain to determine the final outcome's probability (adjusting as new results are available) simply describes Bayes' rule, doesn't it? Duncan Byers  . . . The lack of low-altitude radar coverage as a factor in tornado-warning lead times was not mentioned in "A Better Eye on the Storm," by Jane Lubchenco and Jack Hayes. Even with improvements in signal processing and phased-array radars, the unobservability of the zone where tornadoes form will limit the ability to forecast. Not all urban areas have or will have radars close enough to observe the bottom 5,000 feet of highly active weather systems when tornadoes pose the greatest threat. Very small short-range radars might be co-located with cell-phone towers to provide the density, power, communications and required altitude. Doc Dougherty  . The authors speak of new, higher-resolution weather models that use horizontal grids. Wouldn't it be better to concentrate computing power where it would be most valuable? Model designers might take a cue from image-compression software that uses fine resolution for only those areas in an image where changes occur. It should result in horizontal and vertical grids that fluctuate in fineness in response to actual and predicted conditions--lowering the number of data points in areas where weather is fairly uniform and increasing them where conditions are changing rapidly. Ralph McLain  . The poplar and sugar maple experiment by Ian Baldwin and Jack Schultz, described in Daniel Chamovitz's "What a Plant Smells," doesn't actually demonstrate signaling between plants. As told, undamaged leaves on trees having two damaged leaves were the ones to respond to that damage by making caterpillar deterrents. Nothing is said of the behavior of the intact trees of the same population. Dov Elyada  , What a Plant Knows. . "Erasing Painful Memories," by Jerry Adler, incorrectly refers to a foot shock causing a rat to avoid a particular area as a negative reinforcement. It is more accurately described as a positive punishment. This article was originally published with the title "Letters" in Scientific American  307, 3, 8-9 (September 2012) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0912-8 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.