Read Our Latest Issue The new Center for Humane Technology aims to lead the fight against society's obsession with the Web, apps and social media--but it may just add to the confusion A group of former Silicon Valley insiders recently issued a stark warning to the app-and update-obsessed public: Social media, the Web, mobile apps and other technologies developed to "monetize our attention" are "now eroding the pillars of our society," according to the . The new organization's goal is to push tech companies to create products that benefit society, rather than simply manipulating people's behavior for profit. a former Google "design ethicist" as well as former managers at Mozilla (maker of the Firefox Web browser) and chipmaker Nvidia, the center faces several challenges. Foremost among them is the that it will have to rely on social media and the Web to reach a large enough audience to have any impact. The group also acknowledges the futility of trying to change the business practices of YouTube, Facebook, Snapchat, Twitter and other companies that make lots of money by grabbing and holding people's attention. Instead, the organization--which includes a number of entrepreneurs who have already made fortunes helping peddle the possibly addictive technologies in question--will encourage tech companies to design new products that are less distracting and actually the amount of time people spend staring at their screens. Another important aspect of the center's charter is to pressure governments to create greater consumer protections. Is tech addiction a real condition? If so, how do you know if you're addicted? And is the Center for Humane Technology a potential solution or just another distraction? posed these and other questions to , an associate professor in the Department of Psychiatry at Trinity College Dublin in Ireland. McCarthy-Jones's most recent book is ; he has also the need to weigh the benefits and costs of social networking. [ ] One way to consider whether tech use crosses over into addiction is to look at the six criteria that [a professor of behavioral addiction at Nottingham Trent University in England] need to be met for a behavior to be deemed an addiction. Using social networking sites as an example, are these the overriding focus of your life, dominating your thoughts, feelings and behaviors? Are you using them to cause a specific change in your mood--for example, to induce euphoria or numbing? Do you need to increase your use of them to gain the same level of benefits? If you can't access the site, does this have negative effects on you, such as irritability or headaches? Does your use of the site cause conflict with important people in your life such as your partner, children or employer? And do you continually fall back into your problematic social network use after periods of abstinence or being in control? If you meet all these criteria, you could be said to have a social networking site addiction, although this is not-- --a recognized psychiatric disorder. The same approach can be applied to other online activities such as gaming. Indeed, is identified in the current edition of the -5 [Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition], psychiatry's bible, as a condition recommended for further study. Gaming disorder has likewise of the World Health Organization's forthcoming updated . We can become addicted to certain tech products because our use of them is reinforced. They can help us fulfill a range of psychological needs such as belonging, status and competence. Using them can be , resulting in feelings of competence, excitement or of being "in the zone," each of which has its own reward. Tech can also be extrinsically motivating; its use yields rewards from others, such as approval. Tech products can also help us painful thoughts, feelings and realities. In a society where many people--particularly men--have proved in research experiments that they would rather than sit in silence with their thoughts, the urge to get away from ourselves should not be underestimated. Also feeding the addictive behavior: Many tech products serve up rewards at unpredictable moments. For example, you never know when a status notification is going to pop up on Facebook. This encourages .  , but let's take three as examples. First, your personality influences how prone you might be to tech addiction. A found people who used social network sites compulsively were less emotionally stable, less agreeable and less conscientious. Those people also had lower levels of perceived control and self-esteem. And compulsive social network users were more lonely and depressed than people who did not use these sites in this way. Second, that possessing genetic variants associated with lower levels of dopamine function make you more likely to use internet video games excessively. And, third, you are using tech products influences addiction proneness. For example, is associated with using such games to try and cope with negative emotions, to connect to people and to [master some skill]. To point this out is not to blame the user. People are exposed to a powerful product designed to draw them in while living in [an actual] culture that at times seems callous and liable to push them away. Any answer to problematic tech use involves product, person and society. If someone were trying to design a tech product that was addictive, it would look a lot like many of the products on the market today. Indeed, market forces would appear to encourage the development of addictive tech products. advertise how their knowledge of mechanisms involved in addiction--such as dopamine release and learning theory--can be used to help other businesses increase their customers' usage and loyalty, albeit potentially for health and other benefits to the customer. So it could look from the outside like some tech products were designed to be addictive. That said, this may not have been the case. The center seems to be . On their Web site they mention having a Facebook page by writing, "Sigh..., we do have a Facebook group." The site also recommends using something called [a Google Chrome browser extension that allows Facebook users to access their messages, notifications and groups, but not their newsfeed]. Nevertheless, I think I might see the issue slightly differently to the way they do. I would raise the question: Are some tech products violating our right to freedom of thought? A by the international human rights barrister Susie Alegre recently explored the relation between modern technology and the right to freedom of thought. As she notes, if freedom of thought involves the freedom to keep our thoughts private, how will this square with, for example, Facebook's planned ? Alegre also observes that freedom of thought involves freedom from indoctrination or influence through manipulation. If we think of the now infamous 2014 Facebook [in which the company purposely manipulated information posted on 689,000 users' home pages] or the by Center for Humane Technology co-founder Tristan Harris that tech companies are "shaping the thoughts and feelings and actions of people" and are "programming people," we may wonder if this right is currently being observed. Given we have an absolute right to freedom of thought, the Center for Humane Technology could consider this in their work. A human-rights based approach, focusing on potential tech violations of the absolute right to freedom of thought, could be a useful additional tactic for them. The center's argument that tech's manipulation of us is unethical suggests the tech change. In contrast, if it were deemed that tech's manipulation of us violates our absolute right to freedom of thought, this means the tech change. Larry Greenemeier is the associate editor of technology for , covering a variety of tech-related topics, including biotech, computers, military tech, nanotech and robots. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.