Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The great physicist was not the first to equate forms of mass to energy, nor did he definitively prove the relationship No than , and few are simpler. Indeed, the immortal equation's fame rests largely on that utter simplicity: the energy of a system is equal to its mass multiplied by 2, the speed of light squared. The equation's message is that the mass of a system measures its energy content. Yet tells us something even more fundamental. If we think of , the speed of light, as one light year per year, the conversion factor equals 1. That leaves us with . Energy and mass are the same. According to scientific folklore, formulated this equation in 1905 and, in a single blow, explained how energy can be released in stars and nuclear explosions. This is a vast oversimplification. Einstein was neither the first person to consider the equivalence of mass and energy, nor did he actually prove it. Anyone who sits through a freshman electricity and magnetism course learns that charged objects carry electric fields, and that moving charges also create magnetic fields. Hence, moving charged particles carry electromagnetic fields. Late 19th-century natural philosophers believed that electromagnetism was more fundamental than Isaac Newton's laws of motion and that the electromagnetic field itself should provide the origin of mass. In 1881 , later a discoverer of the electron, made the first attempt to demonstrate how this might come about by explicitly calculating the magnetic field generated by a moving charged sphere and showing that the field in turn induced a mass into the sphere itself. The effect is entirely analogous to what happens when you drop a beach ball to the ground. The force of gravity pulls the ball downward; buoyancy and drag forces from the air impede the ball's fall. But this is not the whole story. Drag or no drag, in order to fall the ball must push the air ahead of it out of the way and this air has mass. The "effective" mass of the falling beach ball is consequently larger than the mass of the ball at rest. Thomson understood that the field of the sphere should act like the air before the beach ball; in his case the effective mass of the sphere was the entire mass induced by the magnetic field. Thomson's slightly complicated result depended on the object's charge, radius and magnetic permeability, but in 1889 English physicist Oliver Heaviside simplified his work to show that the effective mass should be , where is the energy of the sphere's electric field. German physicists Wilhelm Wien, famous for his investigations into blackbody radiation, and Max Abraham got the same result, which became known as the "electromagnetic mass" of the classical electron (which was nothing more than a tiny, charged sphere). Although electromagnetic mass required that the object be charged and moving, and so clearly does not apply to all matter, it was nonetheless the first serious attempt to connect mass with energy. It was not, however, the last. When Englishman John Henry Poynting announced in 1884 a celebrated theorem on the conservation of energy for the electromagnetic field, other scientists quickly attempted to extend conservation laws to mass energy. Indeed, in 1900 the ubiquitous stated that if one required that the momentum of any particles present in an electromagnetic field the momentum of the field itself be conserved , then Poynting's theorem predicted that the field acts as a "fictitious fluid" with mass such that . Poincare, however, failed to connect with the mass of any real body. The scope of investigations widened again in 1904 when Fritz Hasenohrl created a thought experiment involving heat energy in a moving cavity. Largely forgotten today except by , Hasenohrl was at the time more famous than the obscure patent clerk. Then one of Austria's leading physicists, he wrote a prize-winning trilogy of papers, "On the theory of radiation in moving bodies," the last two of which appeared in the in 1904 and early 1905. In the first he imagined a perfectly reflecting cylindrical cavity in which the two end disks--which served as heaters--were suddenly switched on, filling the cavity with ordinary heat, or in physicist lingo, blackbody radiation. Newton's third law ("for every action there is an equal and opposite reaction") tells us in modern language that any photons emitted from the heaters must exert a reaction force against the heaters themselves, and so to keep them in place one must exert an external force against each of them (we imagine that these external forces are what keep the disks attached to the cylinder). But because identical photons are emitted from each end, the forces are equal in magnitude, at least as observed by someone sitting inside the cavity. Hasenohrl, though, next asked what the system looks like as it moves at a fixed velocity with respect to an observer sitting in a laboratory. Basic physics tells us that light emitted from a source moving toward you becomes bluer, and gets redder from a source moving away from you--the famous Doppler shift. Photons from one end disk will therefore appear Doppler blue-shifted to the laboratory observer and those from the other end will be red-shifted. Blue photons carry more momentum than red photons and hence, in order to keep the cavity moving at constant velocity the two external forces must now be different. A simple application of the "work-energy theorem," which equates the difference in work produced by the forces to the cavity's kinetic energy, allowed Hasenohrl to conclude that blackbody radiation has mass . In his second paper Hasenohrl considered a slowly accelerating cavity already filled with radiation and got the same answer. After a communication from Abraham, however, he uncovered an algebraic error and in his third paper corrected both results to . In considering the mass inherent in heat Hasenohrl extended the previous deliberations beyond the electromagnetic field of charged objects to a broader thought experiment very similar to Einstein's own of the following year, which gave birth to .  Of course Hasenohrl was writing pre-relativity and one might think an incorrect result was inevitable. The matter is not so simple. Astronomer Stephen Boughn and I have closely analyzed Hasenohrl's trilogy and the usual claim that "he forgot to take into account the forces the shell itself exerts to hold the end caps in place" is not the issue. The main error in Hasenohrl's first thought experiment is that he did not realize that if the end caps are emitting heat, they must be losing mass--an ironic oversight given that it is exactly the equivalence of mass and energy he was attempting to establish. Nevertheless, Hasenohrl was correct enough that Max Planck could say in 1909, "That the black body radiation possesses inertia was first pointed out by F. Hasenohrl." Black body radiation--heat--has mass. A greater surprise is that with his second experiment, in which the cavity is already filled with radiation and the caps are not radiating, Hasenohrl's answer is not obviously wrong, even according to relativity. Einstein's famous 1905 paper, "Does the inertia of a body depend on its energy content?" considers only a point particle emitting a burst of radiation and asks, as Hasenohrl did, how the system looks from a moving reference frame. In considering a cavity of finite length Hasenohrl was being much more audacious, or reckless. Extended bodies have produced numerous and prolonged headaches in special relativity, such as the fact that the mass of the classical electron also comes out to . That is, using relativistically correct mathematics one gets a result that at first blush contradicts the answer everyone expects and loves. Arguments about how to properly resolve the issue persist to this day. Equally surprising is that although Einstein was the first to propose the correct relationship, , he didn't actually prove it, at least according to his own special relativity. Einstein began by employing the relativistic relationships (the relativistic Doppler shift) he had derived a few months earlier but finally approximated away the relativistic bits, leaving an answer one can get from purely classical physics and which may or may not remain true at the higher velocities where relativity comes into play. Moreover, although he stated that his conclusions apply to all bodies and all forms of energy, Einstein certainly made no attempt to prove it. He was aware of the shortcomings of his derivation and wrote a half dozen more papers over the next 40 years trying to patch things up but arguably never succeeded.  Of course, countless experiments since then have convinced us of the correctness of Einstein's result. One naturally wonders whether Einstein knew of Hasenohrl's work. It is difficult to believe that he did not, given that the bulk of the prize-winning trilogy appeared in the most prominent journal of the day. Certainly at some point he learned of Hasenohrl: a famous photo of the first Solvay Conference in 1911 shows both men gathered around the table with the other illustrious attendees. And so, although Einstein achieved a definite conceptual advance in equating the mass of an object with its total energy content--whether or not it is moving, whether or not it has an electromagnetic field--we can also credit Hasenohrl for unambiguously recognizing that heat itself possess an equivalent mass, and physicists before him for providing a chain of shoulders on which to stand. is the short punch line to a long and winding scientific story. This article was originally published with the title "Did Einstein Really Invent ?" in Scientific American  313, 3,  (September 2015) Tony Rothman is a physicist and writer. He received a B.A.in physics from Swarthmore College in 1975 and a Ph.D. from the Center for Relativity at the University of Texas, Austin in 1981. His area of specialization is cosmology, the study of the early universe, and he has authored about sixty scientific papers on that subject. While a graduate student Rothman studied Russian at Middlebury's Summer Language School and at Leningrad State University. After leaving Texas he did post-doctoral work in cosmology at Oxford, Moscow and Cape Town. Rothman has been on the Editorial Board of Scientific American (1988-1989). From 1990 to 1992 he was a Lecturer at Harvard. He has also been on the faculty at Bennington, Illinois Wesleyan University, Bryn Mawr College and since 2006 has been a lectuter at Princeton University. He is a board member of the Lifeboat Foundation.


Apart from his scientific work, Rothman is the author of nine books. Most recent is Sacred Mathematic: Japanese Temple Geometry, with Fukagawa Hidetoshi (Princeton University Press, 2008), which won the 2008 American Association of Publishers Award for Professional and Scholarly Excellence in mathematics. Previous books are Everything's Relative and Other Fables From Science and Technology (Wiley, 2003); Doubt and Certainty with George Sudarshan (Perseus, 1998); a novel The World is Round (Ballantine/del Rey 1978), three collections of essays: Frontiers of Modern Physics (Dover, 1985), Science a la Mode (Princeton, 1989; paperback, 1991), A Physicist on Madison Avenue, (Princeton, 1991); a collection of short stories about Russia entitled Censored Tales (Macmillan London, 1989); and Instant Physics (Ballantine, 1995). Doubt and Certainty was chosen by the "A-List" as one of the 200 most notable books of 1998. Both Princeton books were chosen as Library of Science Book Club selections; A Physicist on Madison Avenue was nominated for the Pulitzer Prize. Rothman was the scientific editor for Sakharov's memoirs (Knopf, 1990). 
 
In addition Rothman has written five plays, The Magician and the Fool, which won the Oxford 1981-1982 Experimental Theatre Club Competition; The Sand Reckoner, staged at Harvard in 1995; Melisande (1991); Plausibility, about Hedy Lamarr and George Antheil (1998); and recently, The Fiery Angel. His work on Galois won the Mathematical Association of America's Ford Writing Award for 1983. Rothman has contributed to The New Republic, Boston Review, Bostonia, Scientific American, Discover, Analog, Astronomy, the Gettysburg Review, American Scholar, American Scientist and elsewhere, and has appeared frequently on public radio. Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.