Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Most of the nation's waterworks require upgrades and replacement Flint, Mich., was in the midst of its leaded water crisis in February when its residents suffered yet another hit to their water supply. A cracked pipe that delivered potable water to the town meant that for three days they had to boil their tap water to protect against bacterial contamination. Such water main breaks nowadays are hardly unexpected--much of the nation's waterworks requires upgrades and replacement. Solutions include relining pipes or replacing them with corrosion-resistant polyvinyl chloride (PVC). Some communities also have embraced reclamation of household wastewater, along with the capture of storm water on roofs and streets. These approaches can reduce total volume and pressure spikes that overstrain pipes while lowering the energy required to pump and treat all that water. Miles of water main pipes in the U.S. Total number of water main breaks that occur annually in the U.S. Estimated increase over the next 30 years in annual U.S. costs required to replace aging water mains SOURCES: , BY STEVEN FOLKMAN. UTAH STATE UNIVERSITY, APRIL 2012 ( ); . AMERICAN SOCIETY OF CIVIL ENGINEERS, MARCH 2013 ( ); . AMERICAN WATER WORKS ASSOCIATION, 2012 ( ) This article was originally published with the title "Mortal Mains" in Scientific American  314, 5, 19 (May 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0516-19 Robin Lloyd is a science writer based in New York City and a contributing editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.