Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Microsoft's new operating system comes in three versions and runs two different kinds of programs. Here's our guide to keeping it straight In my this month I explained why touch-screen desktop computers are annoyingly hard to use. (It has something to do with so-called "gorilla arm.") But leaving aside those problems, Microsoft's Windows 8 operating system might confuse longtime PC fans, at least at first. That's because it feels like two different operating systems--one for mouse-and-keyboard PCs (the traditional Windows desktop) and one for touch screens (a new mosaic of bright, colorful tiles). Each has its own way of doing things. And each runs its own kind of programs. Actually, that's not the only confusion. Some computers will be able to run both kinds of programs (traditional Windows apps and the new tile-type apps) and some will be able to run only the new tile-type apps. What the world really needs is a glossary to help keep this all straight. Here it is. Clip, save, enjoy.  These are the regular PC programs you've used for years: Photoshop, Quicken, Excel, games. Now that there are two different kinds of programs, it's important that the old kind have a name.  This new kind of app is geared toward the tile-based touch-screen environment. These apps fill the screen, don't have traditional drop-down menus, and generally aren't as ambitious or powerful as regular PC programs. Microsoft supplies Windows Store apps called Calendar, Mail, Photos and Music; the store offers many more iPad-style apps. Just be careful (see next item).  Somewhat confusingly named, the online Windows Store sells Windows Store apps (it's their only source) traditional Windows desktop apps (it's not their only source).  An operating system that does run Windows desktop apps--only Windows Store apps. That's because Windows RT (short for "runtime") does not run on Intel chips--only on so-called ARM chips, which are lower-power, longer-battery-life chips found in tablets and some laptops. A Windows RT tablet such as Microsoft's Surface tablet runs only Windows Store apps.  Windows 8 is the full Windows version, the one that requires Intel chips and can run Windows desktop apps and Windows Store apps.  This more expensive version of Windows 8 contains a few additional features aimed at power users and corporate workers.  Microsoft gave the new Start screen (the screen full of colorful tiles) the code name "Metro" during development. Microsoft doesn't use that term officially, but it hasn't given us a replacement term to refer to the new tile-based interface.  That's Microsoft's own $500 touch-screen tablet. It's a Windows RT device, meaning that it doesn't contain an Intel chip and runs only Windows Store apps.  Microsoft also sells this much more expensive, somewhat thicker and heavier tablet that does contain an Intel chip and does run both Windows Store apps and traditional Windows desktop programs. David Pogue is the anchor columnist for Yahoo Tech and host of several miniseries on PBS. Credit: Nick Higgins January 1, 2013  --  David Pogue Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.