Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A series of experiments shed light on "overcurvature" Camping enthusiasts and aspiring modern sculptors take heed: researchers have achieved a breakthrough in understanding and controlling overcurvature, which is found in such disparate settings as pop-up tents, DNA plasmids and curved origami. Overcurvature occurs when a ring is too curved to lie flat in a plane the way a normal circle does. For example, if you detached a segment of a Slinky and connected its ends to make a closed loop, you would have a hard time getting the whole thing to lie flat on the floor. The intrinsic curvature of the Slinky would cause the ring to buckle and assume a three-dimensional saddle shape. In fact, the Slinky played a major role in this research project, the results of which were published in the journal last December. ( is part of Nature Publishing Group.) After observing overcurved rings of various sizes and materials, the researchers found a family of curves with fairly simple mathematical descriptions that they believed would model the shapes these overcurved rings take in space. They used loops made from portions of plastic Slinkys as the setting for precise measurements and found that their predicted curves were indeed what they observed in the Slinkys. "It was really surprising to us," says Alain Jonas, a materials scientist at the Catholic University of Leuven in Belgium, who led the research. "It was this experience where you find something and it actually fits!" The paper includes an efficient pathway for folding pop-up tents and other overcurved rings, as shown in the illustration above. To fold a ring into three loops, place your hands on opposite sides of the ring. As you lift up, bring your hands together and grab the opposite sides in one hand. Use your free hand to coax the two opposite sides down and toward each other to form a saddle shape. At both the top and the bottom, push one side over the other and collapse the loops together. The proposal differs from the approach that people usually take. It requires more energy initially but uses less overall. "It's not very intuitive when you do it," Jonas says, "but that's what the physics of the problem wants." After performing the research, he borrowed a friend's tent to practice the technique he and his colleagues had developed. It was a success. This article was originally published with the title "How the Slinky Buckles" in Scientific American  308, 3, 28 (March 2013) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0313-28 Evelyn Lamb is a freelance math and science writer based in Salt Lake City, Utah. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.