Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A preview by our editor in chief of the October issue of Shakespeare wrote in his tragic play that slumber is a "Balm of hurt minds" and "Chief nourisher in life's feast." In this issue's cover story, sleep researcher Robert Stickgold explains the many ways those statements are far more than pretty turns of phrase. In fact, it is physiologically vital that we spend about a third of our lives unconscious. Dozing, Stickgold writes, is involved in a "multitude of biological processes--from the inner workings of the immune system to proper hormonal balance, to emotional and psychiatric health, to learning and memory, to the clearance of toxins from the brain." Losing a few hours of shut-eye depresses various functions, reducing our cognitive and memory powers, souring our mood, even reducing our body's ability to defend against infections. If we did not snooze at all, eventually we would die. Click to learn more about our remarkably restorative nightly visits to the land of Nod. It has taken decades to develop even a rough understanding of the multiple benefits of catching 40 winks, but the weight of ongoing studies eventually has made the picture clearer. The clarifying effect of the gradual accumulation of data is a steady theme in the evolution of modern research in general and forms the underpinning of this year's " " special report, organized by Fred Guterl, with editing support from Seth Fletcher and Mark Fischetti and graphic design by Jen Christiansen. Data are the fuel for the engine known as Big Science--those bold projects that aim to tackle challenging large questions and to help make progress on some of humanity's toughest problems. In " ," for instance, journalist Stefan Theil looks at how researchers are trying to pry the operational secrets from the biological computing machines in our skulls. The uneven success to date of vast brain research projects in the European Union, the U.S. and elsewhere shows just how difficult managing large-scale efforts can be. Next, Dean Karlan asks in " ," do microloans really help the world's poorest? The answer will surprise you. In " ," Rodrigo Guerrero Velasco describes his experiences as mayor of Cali, Colombia, where he used data to address an epidemic of violent homicides--with compelling results. And through the Nature Index, we showcase the top research institutions around the world; see " ," ( is part of Springer Nature.) The process of science can't solve all the world's problems, of course, but it is often deeply inspiring to me to realize how much it can help. This article was originally published with the title "Sleep Science" in Scientific American  313, 4, 4 (October 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1015-4 Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.