Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the January/February 2014 issue of " ," by Ferris Jabr, is astounding in its implications. Helen Keller said she didn't have self-awareness or consciousness before she met her teacher and learned language. An aphasic stroke victim who loses inner dialogue loses the ability to structure thoughts in terms of past and future and so can only exist. Is it possible that the evolution of a primitive language predated the expansion of the human brain and our rise to lofty heights of intelligence? What if we hit a tipping point of rudimentary language that allowed us, as with Helen Keller, to become self-aware for the first time and begin to structure our thoughts and world in a more complex way, with past and future, layered emotion, and a capacity for structured planning? And have we ourselves already done this experiment unwittingly? We have taught gorillas to use sign language so they could tell us how they think. But what if the act of teaching them a language fundamentally changed the way that they actually thought? What if we then saw not the intelligence of the average gorilla but rather a gorilla that was endowed with a heightened ability to reason beyond that of any other gorilla that ever existed? What an amazing example of observer effect! Singapore . I eventually managed to qualify as a medical practitioner and worked at my trade for nearly 40 years, still blissfully unaware of my "disorder." In fact, I had already been retired from active practice for 10 years before the truth dawned on me. I did indeed suffer from several physical ailments that are now known to be sometimes associated with autism, and it was these rather than the psychiatric symptoms that led to my failure to keep practicing beyond the usual retirement age. Current trends make me question whether the neurotypical majority is correct in labeling us as abnormal and whether perhaps many of the more severe grades of autism might actually be caused by the treatment we receive at the hands of that majority. Are you quite sure we are in fact abnormal? Could it just be that we are different? Laurieton, Australia I read with interest " " by Scott O. Lilienfeld and Hal Arkowitz [Facts and Fictions in Mental Health]. After reading it, I couldn't help but wonder what value there was in writing such an article. Your criticisms were of a D.A.R.E. program that is no longer being administered. I'm sure you were unaware of that fact, otherwise I'm confident that you would have mentioned that the D.A.R.E. program that exists today (D.A.R.E. keepin' it REAL) is indeed evidence-based. It has been evaluated to be a good use of police resources and is very beneficial to kids. In the interest of fairness to the story, you were also remiss in not mentioning that the previous D.A.R.E. program did include the peer role playing that you claimed it lacked. I've been a D.A.R.E. officer for 15 years and have never taught a version of the program where the message is simply "just say no." D.A.R.E. has always given the students a variety of tools to help them make safe and responsible choices surrounding not only the use of substances but in most any circumstance. Perhaps even more valuable, but seldom regarded, is that the program affords an opportunity for the police to build healthy and mutually beneficial relationships with the schools, the kids and their families. To suggest that D.A.R.E. "doesn't work" indicates that your expectation was that the program should act as a "vaccination" against drug use. Although it would be great if such a thing actually existed, the fact remains that it doesn't. It would be nice to see some support for the effort and not have reputable publications such as yours use outdated and misguided data as a means of promoting damaging misinformation. RCMP Drugs and Organized Crime Awareness Service Victoria, B.C. . . As causes of violence, heat and cold are both stressors, as Ajai Raj and Andrea Anderson detailed in " " and " " [Head Lines]. The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is the part of the brain that makes us do the hard thing or, conversely, inhibits us from doing the easy thing. When there is an excess of stress, whether mental or physical, it is more difficult for the PFC to intervene and prevent automatic behavior. It is reasonable that thermal stressors would have a similar effect. The lack of violence in cold weather is probably related to the fact that it is easier to stay warmer (and therefore mitigate stress) by staying inside. What would be interesting is whether domestic violence increases in cold weather, when the opportunity to take it out on someone else is lessened. Hot Springs, Ark. In " ," by Ajai Raj [Head Lines], the study by Solomon Hsiang and his colleagues is mistakenly cited as having appeared in . The paper appeared in on September 13, 2013. This article was originally published with the title "January/February 2014" in SA Mind 25, 3, 4-5 (May 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0514-4 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.