Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Swedish designer Jan Klingler has garnered attention for his stunning lighting featuring bacteria Most people think of bacteria as unseen disease carriers and simply want to wash their hands of them. But Stockholm-based industrial designer Jan Klingler is putting them in the spotlight with his colorful lamps. "Every living being and place has its own unique and personal microbiological fingerprint," Klingler says. By capturing such signatures, he aims to bottle memories. Customers who order one of Klingler's lamps--which will be for sale soon--will get a kit with a sterile swab they can brush on a loved one, pet or object. (Klingler himself swabbed the subway station pillar where he met his partner.) The customer will send the sample back to Klingler, who will culture it in a petri dish. Bacterial colonies erupt in different colors, which Klingler can customize by varying the species and growth medium. This approach creates flamboyant shapes "growing into each other and melting together in interesting patterns," he says. Klingler and his collaborator Volkan Ozenci, a microbiologist at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden, are now experimenting with tuning growth speed and duration. "It is impossible to exactly foresee what will grow," Klingler says. After the bacteria multiply for a day or two, he encases them in resin, making what he calls "modern fossils." The resin disks are then embedded in blown-glass structures that resemble laboratory equipment. Finally, bright LEDs bring the colors and patterns to life. This article was originally published with the title "Cultured Art" in Scientific American  321, 1, 15 (July 2019) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0719-15 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.