Read Our Latest Issue Dark energy wins out in the end: Three U.S. scientists have been honored for their observations that type Ia supernovae indicate that the expansion of the universe is accelerating The 2011 Nobel Prize in physics was awarded today to at the Lawrence Berkeley National Lab, Brian Schmidt at the Australian National Lab and at Johns Hopkins University for their discovery of the accelerating expansion of the universe. "In a universe which is dominated by matter, one would expect gravity eventually should make the expansion slow down, the Royal Swedish Academy's Olga Botner said this morning at the announcement event in Stockholm. "Imagine then the utter astonishment when two groups of scientists headed by this year's Nobel Laureates in 1998 discovered that the expansion was not slowing down, it was actually accelerating." "By comparing the brightness of distant, far-away supernovae with the brightness of nearby supernovae," Botner continued, "the scientists discovered that the far-away supernovae were about 25 percent too faint. They were too far away. The universe was accelerating. And so this discovery is fundamental and a milestone for cosmology. And a challenge for generations of scientists to come." For a 2004 article in by Riess about the use of distant supernovae to reveal the acceleration of the universe, . And for a profile of Perlmutter and his work on dark energy. April 21, 2008  --  David Appell February 1, 2004  --  Adam G. Riess and Michael S. Turner May 1, 2008  --  David Appell December 19, 2008  --  John Matson April 1, 2009  --  Timothy Clifton and Pedro G. Ferreira January 25, 2010  --  Larry Greenemeier Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.