Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Pacific reefs devastated by El Nino offer a glimpse of the future under global warming and it's causing a massive coral die off. From the water's surface, the coral reefs surrounding Christmas Island looked healthy. But as soon as Kim Cobb plunged below the azure waters that surround the world's largest atoll, a new picture began to emerge on a November dive. Once-vibrant reefs had lost their color. Ghostly white skeletons covered in a growing layer of green-brown algae created a desolate underwater landscape. , said. "But all the colors were different. The coral isn't alive, it's already dead. It's an eerie, eerie thing to be in the midst of such a rapid transformation." Cobb has worked on the reef for 18 years. The rapid change she saw this year is being driven by El Nino, which has ratcheted up ocean temperatures to record levels in the eastern central Pacific. turned into a rapid rise in the . By November, water temperatures around the island reached as high as 88degF. That's great for a swim but terrible for coral. When waters warm for an extended period, they essentially cook the algae that help coral grow. If water temperatures remain that high, coral can't recover and die off. -- termed bleaching by scientists -- ever recorded and the hot waters around Christmas Island have been dealing with the heat for months. , a coral ecologist at the University of Victoria who is also doing work at Christmas Island, said. "That is almost unprecedented, if not totally unprecedented. We normally look at temperature anomalies in degree heat weeks. We've been saying we might have to change the scale to degree heat months because this is going on and on and on." Months upon months of exposure to extreme heat have cooked corals to a crisp. Cobb estimated that 30 percent of the corals she's been monitoring are dead. "Given that what we saw in November was a much larger level of destruction than anticipated, we're truly braced for the worst," she said, noting that some areas could see 100 percent die off by the time El Nino is expected to wind down in March.  is. Christmas Island's location makes it a model location to study the role of warming on reefs, but it also has a diverse array of reefs -- from ones impacted by human fishing to ones that are in pristine condition -- that make it ideal to see how different influences play out. Monitoring reefs' reaction to warm waters and how they recover (or don't) when El Nino finally ebbs could also provide clues about how to manage reefs in other parts of the world. and protecting coral reefs becomes even more important (and challenging). and when managed properly, can be an important source of subsistence for millions around the world. Researchers estimate that reefs could provide as much as , from tourism to fishing to flood protection. In part, that's why their survival is so important. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.