Read Our Latest Issue The mile-wide twister flattened much of the city of Moore  An F-4 tornado that was nearly a mile wide touched down in Moore, Okla., causing devastating damage, several injuries and at least 51 deaths. The tornado touched down at about 2:53 p.m. CDT Monday in Moore, between Norman and Oklahoma City. Entire neighborhoods were leveled, according to local police. Power lines were reported down on Santa Fe Road near the Briarwood Elementary School in Oklahoma City, Okla. It was reported that the elementary school had a large gas leak. Emergency crews experienced difficulty reaching the school due to large amounts of debris in the road. Police reported that children were trapped under debris at the school. Later, police requested all available personnel report to help rescue the children from the debris. Children were reported to be lost and wandering in groups as parents searched the area. Children at the Wellston Elementary School in Wellston, Okla., and Plaza Towers Elementary School in Moore, Okla., were also reported to be trapped under debris. Injured people in Moore were being transported by police to the nearest roads clear of debris so they could be transported to medical facilities set up nearby. Preliminary reports of at least 51 people killed and as many as 30 elementary students unaccounted for. At least 120 people are being treated for injuries. Moore, Okla., was hit by an F-5 tornado on May 3, 1999. That tornado killed 44 people. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.