Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue This is the fourth time this new antibiotic-resistant bacteria has been detected domestically There's some moderately good news and bad news from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention about the that has been generating concern in the United States and elsewhere. First the bad: Another human case of the bug, known as mcr-1, has been found in the United States, bringing the total domestic cases so far to four. The moderately good news: Investigations into two of those cases failed to turn up any evidence the bug spread to contacts of the people who were carrying it. The reports of those investigations were published Friday in the CDC's online journal . "These findings suggest that the risk for transmission from a colonized patient to otherwise healthy persons, including persons with substantial exposure to the patient, might be relatively low," the authors of the investigation into the wrote. The case was a woman in Pennsylvania, who was found to have the E. coli carrying the mcr-1 gene in her system in May. The woman, who had been hospitalized multiple times in the time leading up to the discovery, was being evaluated for a possible urinary tract infection. The mcr-1 gene--which is able to jump from bacteria to bacteria -- makes bugs carrying it capable of resisting the antibiotic colistin, which is considered a drug of last resort. It is used when bacteria are resistant to other, more commonly used antibiotics. The fear is that mcr-1, combined with other forms of antibiotic resistance, will give rise to bacteria that cannot be successfully treated with antibiotics. Disease detectives studying the case of this woman--and , a baby in Connecticut who was found in June to be infected with E. coli carrying the mcr-1 gene--identified and tested family members and close contacts who had the type of contact with these two patients that might have led to spread of the bacteria. In the case of the woman from Pennsylvania, 98 people agreed to be tested. The baby had fewer close contacts; six were tested and none was found to be carrying the gene. The lack of evident spread doesn't mean, though, that health care providers can let down their guards. "Health care personnel should immediately report colistin-resistant bacteria to their local health department," the authors of the Pennsylvania report wrote. They are from the state's health department and the CDC. "Health departments are encouraged to rapidly investigate reports of colistin-resistant bacteria to prevent transmission to other patients and thereby decrease the risk for transmitting plasmid-encoded genes to bacteria that might already contain other resistance genes." Helen Branswell is STAT's infectious diseases and public health reporter. She comes from the Canadian Press, where she was the medical reporter for the past 15 years. Helen cut her infectious diseases teeth during Toronto's SARS outbreak in 2003 and spent the summer of 2004 embedded at the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In 2010-11 she was a Nieman Global Health Fellow at Harvard, where she focused on polio eradication. Warning: Helen asks lots of questions. Credit: Nick Higgins STAT delivers fast, deep, and tough-minded journalism. We take you inside science labs and hospitals, biotech boardrooms, and political backrooms. We dissect crucial discoveries. We examine controversies and puncture hype. We hold individuals and institutions accountable. We introduce you to the power brokers and personalities who are driving a revolution in human health. These are the stories that matter to us all. September 7, 2016  --  Dina Fine Maron May 27, 2016  --  Melinda Wenner Moyer Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.