Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A baby's brain prioritizes learning over forming lasting memories As soon as we are born, we begin figuring things out. We learn to ask for meals and fresh diapers, and we absorb an entire language between naps. Yet we recall little of those busy years. As it turns out, the same process that allows babies to learn rapidly might also disrupt the neuronal links that encode certain kinds of memories, according to a recent paper in . Paul W. Frankland of the Hospital for Sick Children in Toronto and his colleagues suspected that the dramatic growth of neurons in the infant brain might interfere with the formation of memories. To test this idea, they ramped up neuron production in adult mice right after they learned something new. Unlike youngsters, adults grow neurons only slowly. But add exercise or drugs such as antidepressants, and neurons proliferate. When adult mice exercised after learning that a certain cage delivered a foot shock, the memory of the painful lesson diminished. Then the team turned to infant mice, whose brains naturally grow lots of neurons. These young mice rarely remember the foot shock for more than a day. When the researchers used a drug to slow the infants' neuron growth, the mice retained the memory for a week. The findings suggest that new neurons disrupt the links that make a memory. In children up to about age three, the rapid-fire neuron growth that lets them learn about the world prevents memories of isolated events from sticking around. Infants and toddlers do form such memories--your 18-month-old may remember the dog she saw a few days ago--but unless the memory is reinforced, it will disappear as new neurons develop. After about age three, neuron growth slows, and the image of that dog may stick around for life. [For more on neuron growth in the brain, see " ."] This article was originally published with the title "Why We Forget Our Earliest Years" in SA Mind 25, 5, 9 (September 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0914-9a September 1, 2014  --  William Skaggs September 1, 2014  --  Roni Jacobson September 1, 2014  --  Victoria Stern Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.