Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Also: and by Eric W. Sanderson. Illustrations by Markley Boyer. Abrams, 2009 Using a detailed map created by the British army in about 1782, Sanderson, a landscape ecologist at the Wildlife Conservation Society, re-creates Manhattan as it would have looked when Henry Hudson first saw it in 1609 (left side of image). The goal is not to return today's Manhattan (right side of image) to its primeval state but to have some fun and to see what vision of the future might work for the metropolis.  by Evalyn Gates. W. W. Norton, 2009 Not so long ago, Gates begins, astrophysicists, thrilled with bigger and better telescopes, "settled in to appreciate the unprecedented clarity of their view of the cosmos, only to find that their new instruments revealed a Universe that didn't act at all the way it was supposed to." Instead their observations insisted that the stars and galaxies we see are only a small part of the matter that exists. The remainder, composed of new kinds of particles called dark matter and the even stranger dark energy, is invisible to their telescopes. Fortunately, as Gates (an astrophysicist at the University of Chicago) details, scientists can use space itself as a telescope to search for dark matter and dark energy. According to Einstein, mass of any kind warps space: just as every planet and star creates a "dimple" in space, so dark matter also deforms the space around it. This warping acts as a gravitational lens--the "telescope" of the book's title--to bend and deflect light in the same way that lenses made of glass or plastic do. Using gravitational lensing, scientists have already discovered extrasolar planets and black holes and have reconstructed the collision of two giant clusters of galaxies. Researchers now have the potential, Gates maintains, to unveil dark matter and dark energy and to find new clues to the mystery of what the universe is made of. by Sarah Blaffer Hrdy. Harvard University Press, 2009 More than a million years ago, somewhere in Africa, a group of apes began to rear their young differently. Unlike almost all other primates, they were willing to let others share in the care of infants. The reasons for this innovation are lost in the ancient past, but according to well-known anthropologist Hrdy, it was crucial that these mothers had related--and therefore trusted--females nearby and that the helpers provided food as well as care. Out of this "communal care," she argues, grew the human capacity for understanding one another: mothers and others teach us who will care and who will not. Beginning with her opening conceit of apes on an airplane (you wouldn't want to be on this flight) and continuing through her informed insights into the behavior of other species, Hrdy's reasoning is fascinating to follow. Readers interested in this topic might also want to look at two other books just out: by Adam Phillips and Barbara Taylor (Farrar, Straus and Giroux), and , by Gregory Cochran and Henry Harpending (Basic Books). This article was originally published with the title "Dark Universe Manhattan circa 1609" in Scientific American  300, 5, 78-79 (May 2009) 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.