Read Our Latest Issue To compensate for their own inability to pick up and move elsewhere, many plants produce fleshy, seed-bearing fruits to lure animals that then unwittingly do the legwork for them. Yet a number of fruits contain chemicals that vertebrate species find unpalatable. New research, published today in the journal shows that in the case of the chiltepine chili, this apparent paradox is actually an ideal adaptation. Laboratory studies have demonstrated that capsaicin, the chemical that lends chilies their spicy heat, is toxic to mammals but not to birds. Perhaps not surprisingly then, when study authors Joshua J. Tewksbury of the University of Montana and Gary P. Nabhan of Northern Arizona University observed a native population of chiltepine chilies in southern Arizona, they found that only birds (mostly curve-billed thrashers) eat the wild chilies; the local small mammals (cactus mice and packrats) avoid them. This selective discouragement, it turns out, is in the plant's best interest. Experiments conducted using a non-peppery cousin of the chiltepine chili (the mammals refuse to eat the hot chilies) revealed that chili seeds ingested by cactus mice and packrats failed to germinate. Consumption by the thrashers, on the other hand, resulted in germination rates comparable with those of seeds planted directly from the fruit. (Hot chilies fed to the thrashers gave similarly positive results.) The thrashers make better dispersers for several reasons, Tewksbury and Nabhan conclude. For one thing, unlike the mammals, they pass whole seeds. But they also often deposit the seeds in prime spots: under the protective shade of other fruiting shrubs and trees. As a result, the authors write, "seedlings can be more easily established, predispersal fruit predation is lower, and seed dispersal is greater." The chili's fiery strategy, it seems, yields sweet rewards Kate Wong is a senior editor for evolution and ecology at . Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.