Read Our Latest Issue  St. Elmo's Fire is a type of continuous electric spark called a "glow
discharge." You've seen it many times before, since it is almost exactly the same
as the glows found inside fluorescent tubes, mercury vapor streetlights, old
orange-display calculators and in "eye of the storm" plasma globes. When it
occurs naturally, we call it St. Elmo's Fire, but when it occurs inside a glass
tube, we call it a neon sign. St. Elmo's Fire and normal sparks both can appear when high electrical voltage
affects a gas. St. Elmo's fire is seen during thunderstorms when the ground below
the storm is electrically charged, and there is high voltage in the air between
the cloud and the ground. The voltage tears apart the air molecules and the gas
begins to glow. It takes about 30,000 volts per centimeter of space to start a
St. Elmo's fire (although sharp points can trigger it at somewhat lower voltage
levels.) St. Elmo's Fire is plasma. A normal gas is composed of molecules. The
molecules are composed of atoms, which in turn are composed of electrons and
clusters of proton particles. If the electric force applied to each bit of gas is
greater than a certain level of voltage, it causes the electrons and protons of
the gas molecules to be pulled away from each other. High voltage transforms the
gas into a glowing mixture of separate proton clusters and electrons. We call
this mixture of particles by the name "plasma," and it is conductive. It also
fluoresces with light. The color of the glow depends on the type of gas involved. If we lived in an
atmosphere of neon gas, then St. Elmo's fire would be red/orange, and lightning
would be white with orange edges. Our atmosphere is nitrogen and oxygen, and this
mixture glows blue/violet when exposed to high voltage fields. If a neon sign
tube was filled with nitrogen/oxygen instead of neon, it would light up
blue/violet rather than red/orange. Is this phenomenon related to ball lightning? No one knows, because no one knows what ball lightning is, and it might not be a spark at all. St. Elmo's fire is sometimes mistaken for ball lightning. Among other differences, ball lightning can drift around like a soap bubble, while St. Elmo's Fire always remains attached to an object.  I boarded the Kings' ship; now in the beak, Now in the waist, the deck, in every cabin, I flamed amazement; sometime I'd
divide And burn in many places; on the topmast The yards and bowsprit,
would I flame distinctly Then meet and join.  -- (Act I, Scene 2) William Shakespeare Air is a good electric insulator. However, if an electric field at the end of
a metal rod is strong, air molecules in its vicinity are ionized and charges
stream off the end of the rod. Since an electric field is intensified in regions
of high curvature, discharges are intensified at the end of pointed metal rods. These "corona discharges" give a faint light that is visible in the dark. St.
Elmo's fire is an example of a continuous corona discharge. It is not a form of
lightning. The luminous glow of St. Elmo's fire is sometimes observed at night
from the tops of ships' masts when electrified clouds are overhead. The mast
appears to be on fire but does not burn. St. Elmo's' fire tends to occur toward
the end of a thunderstorm. Mariners have traditionally interpreted it as a good
omen. St. Elmo is the patron saint of sailors but St. Elmo's fire is not bound to
the sea. It has been observed atop tall steeples. My brother once saw it envelop
metal pipes outside his home. July 18, 1997 Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.