Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Tall timber buildings could produce fewer emissions and sequester carbon dioxide A wood skyscraper might sound like a bad idea--and potentially a giant tinderbox. But architects around the world are steadily building more timber high-rises, partly with the aim of curbing carbon pollution. Lofty wood buildings are popping up in major cities from London to Melbourne. Many more are in the works--soon Portland, Ore., will be getting its own--and they continue to break height records for modern lumber construction. The world's tallest such building completed, a 53-meter Vancouver high-rise called Brock Commons, officially opens in September. Wood is strong, lightweight and resilient to earthquakes, says Russell Acton, a principal architect at Acton Ostry Architects, which designed Brock Commons. And the thick pieces of wood used in such buildings are in fact surprisingly fire-resistant--when burned, they form an outer layer of char that can protect the material underneath. Timber has environmental benefits as well: it is a sustainable resource--as long as forests are properly managed--and appears to emit less carbon dioxide over the course of its production (from living tree to finished building) than traditional materials such as steel and concrete. In addition, trees naturally sequester carbon and thus help to keep greenhouse gases out of the air. Fittingly, wood is helping cities "go green." This article was originally published with the title "Wood Is the New Steel" in Scientific American  317, 3, 19 (September 2017) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0917-19 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.