Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Wanted--An experienced foreman for a machine shop in the West, employing an average of 50 hands ; must be thoroughly conversant with engine practice and general machine work, with experience in the economical mnn-agement of men. Give reference and salary expected. Address J. M. H., P. O. Box 773, New York.
Catarrh, Catarrhal Deafness, and Hay Fever permanently cured by anew treatment, in from one to three simple applications, made at home. Send stamp for descriptive pamphlet to
Dixon&Son, 303 West King St..
Toronto, Canada. Send to the Railroad Gazette, 73 Broadway, New York, for a catalogue of Locomotive, Track, and other railroad books.
Guild&Garrison's Steam Pump Works, Brooklyn, N. Y. Pumps for liquids, air, and gases. New catalogue now ready.
To Maintain One Lie you must invent twenty. but truth can never be strengthened by bolstering. The testimony of every lady who has used Dr. Pierce's Favorite Prescription for nervous debility and female weakness carries conviction with it. The facts are stated in such a way that no one can doubt them. All those peculiar pains and sinking sensations which ladies suffer from can be overcome by means of this wonderful preparation. If your are a sufferer from female weakness.., don't full to employ It.
Wanted--To correspond with a practical door, sash, and blind maker ; one who would be fully competent to take full charge of a factory and could give correct estimate of machinery needed, cost of manufacture, prob -at.le demand and margin. One that could take an interest would be preferred. Address Mr. H. H. Durkee, 48 Broad St., New York.
Plumb&Webb, Newark, N. J., clockwork, wheels, pinions, worms, and small gearing to order a specialty.
IFand.mdash;A Mechanical Draughtsman wanted to go West. One acquainted with wood working machinery preferred. Steady emplyment to a sober and industrious man. Address, with full particulars, stating wages expected, etc.. Western. P. O. Box 773, New York city ,
For Sale.--A patent Boiler Flue Cleaner. A bonanza . Louis Duennisch, Sandusky, Ohio.
For Sale--Patent, dated April 6, 1886, Valve Gear for Reversible Engines. Address Box 65, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Emery Wheels of unusually superior quality for wet grinding. The Tanite Co., Stroudsburg, Monroe Co., Pa,
Wanted--Patented articles of merit to manufacture on royalty. Electric Mfg. Co., 811 River St.. Troy, N. Y .
Nickel Plating.--Sole manufacturers cast nickel anodes, pure nickel salts, polishing compositions, etc. 100 iMUe Wonder. A perfect Electro Plating Machine. Sole manufacturers of the new Dip Lacquer Kristaline, Complete outfi t for plating, etc. Hanson, Van Winkle&Co., Newark, N. J., and 92 and 94 Liberty St.. New York.
GHmshaw--Steam Engine Catechism--K series of thoroughly Practical Questions and Answers arranged so as to give to a Young Engineer just the information required to fit him for properly running an engine. By Robert Grimshaw. 18mo, cloth, 1.00. For sale by 1 Munn&Co., 361 Broadway, N. Y.
Wm. Frech, Sensitive Drill Presses, Turret and Speed Lathes combined, Power Punching Presses. 68 W. Monroe Street, Chicago.
Orcker our elegant Keyless Locks for your fine doors. Circular free. Lexington Mfg. Co., Lexington, Ky.
Send for catalogue of Scientific Books for sale by Munn&Co., 361 Broadway, N. Y. Free on application.
The Knowles Steam Pump Works, 44 Washington St., Boston, and 93 Liberty St., New York. have just issued a new catalogue. in which are many new and improved forms of Pumping Machinery of the single and duplex, steam and power type. This catalogue will be mailed free of charge on application.
HaswelVs Engineers Pocket-Book. By Charles H . Haswell, Civil, Marine, and Mechanical Engineer. Giving Tables, Rules, and Formulas pertaining to Mechanics, Mathematics, and Physics, Architecture, Masonry, Steam Vessels, Mills. Limes, Mortars, Cements, etc. 90 pages, leather, pocket-book form, 4.00. For sale by Munn&Co., 861 Broadway. New York.
Machinery for Light Manufacturing, on hand and built w order. E. E. Garvin&Co., 139 Center St., N. Y. Send for Monthly Machinery List to the George Place Machnery Company, 121 Chambers and 103 Reade Streets, New York.
If an invention has not been patented in the United States for more than one year, it may still bepatentedin Canada. Cost for Canadian patent. 40. Various other foreign patents may also be obtained. For instructions address Munn&Co., Scientific American patent agency, 361 Broadway, New York.
Presses&Dies. Ferracute Mach. Co., Bridgeton, N.J.
Iron Planer, Lathe, Drill, and other machine tools of modern design. New Haven Mfg. Co., New Ilaven, Conn.
Nystrom's Mechanics.--A pocket book of mechanics and engineering, containing a memorandum of facts and connection of practice and theory, by .7. W. Nystrom, C.E., 18th edition. revised and greatly enlarged, plates, X2mo. roan tuck. Price, 3.50. For sale by Munn&Co., 361 Broadway, New York city.
Tools, Hardware, and other specialties made under contract. American Machine Co., Philadelphia.
Supplement Catalogue.--Persons in pursuit of information of any special engineering, mechanical. or scientific subject, can have catalogue of contents of the Sci-entiftc American Supplement sent to them free. The Supplement contains lengthy articles embracing the whole range of engineering, mechanics, and physical science. Address Munn&Co., Publishers, New York.
Mineral Lands Prospected, Artesian Wells Bored, by Pa. Diamond Drill Co. Box 423, Pottsville, Pa. See p. 46.
Hercules Lacing and Superior Leather Belting made by Page Belting Co., Concord, N. H. See adv. page 28.
IIfPlaning and Matching Machines. All kinds Wood Working Machinery. C. B. Rogers&Co., Norwich, Conn.
A Catechism on the Locomotive. By M. N. Forney. With 19 plates, 227 engravings, and 60 pages. 2.50. Sent on receipt of the price by Munn&Co., 361 Broadway, New York.
Thee Windmill as a Prime Mover. Comprehending everything of value relating to windmills, their use, design, construction, etc. By A. R. Wolff. With many fine illustrations. (Shortly.) 8vo, cloth. Price, 1>.00. For sale by Munn&Co., 361 Broadway. New York.
Iron, Steel, and Copper Drop Forgings of every description. Billings&Spencer Co., Hartford. Conn. See Burnham Automatic Engine adv. last and next week.
We are sole manufacturers of the Fibrous Asbestos Removable Pipe and Boiler Coverings. We make pure asbestos goods of all kinds. The Chalmers-Spence Co., 419 East 8th Street, New York.
Crescent Solidified Oil and Lubricators. Something new. Crescent Mfg: Co., Cleveland, O.
Curtis Return Steam Trap returns all condensations into the boiler without waste. Curtis Regulator Works. Boston, Mass.
Curtis Pre ssure Regulator for Steam Heating Apparatus, Waterworks, etc. Curtis Regulator Works, Boston, Mass.
New Portable&Stationary Centering Chucks for rapid centering. Price list free. Cushman Chuck Co., Hartford, Conn.
Steam Hammers, Improved Hydraulic Jacks, and Tube Expanders. R. Dudgeon, 24 Columbia St., New York.
60,000 1886 Book of superior saws, with
Supplement, sent free to all Sawyers and Lumbermen. Address Emerson, Smith&Co., Limited, Beaver Falls, Pa., U. S. A.
Safety Elevators, steam and belt power ; qukck and smooth. D. Frisbie&Co.. Philadelphia. Pa.
Manufacture of Soaps, Candles, Lubricants, and Glycerine. Illustrated. Price, 4.00. E.&F. N. Spon, New York.
 1886 SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN, INC
May
1886.]
SftUititU mmau.
283
 How to Keep Boilers Clean. Send your address for free 88 page book. Jas. C. Hotchkiss.93 John St., N. Y.
Barrel, Keg, Hogshead, StaveMach'y. See adv. p. 76.
Brass and Iron Working Machinery, Die Sinkers, and Screw Machines. Warner&Swasey, Cleveland. O.
Split Pulleys at low prices, and of same strength and appearance as Whole Pulleys. Yocom&Son's Shafting Works. Drinker St., Philadelphia. Pa. This article was originally published with the title "Business and Personal" in SA Builders 1, 7build, 282-283 (May 1886) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican05011886-219bbuild 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.