Read Our Latest Issue Discovery of the human variant of the gene in Neandertals suggests they may have had language skills German researchers have discovered Neandertals apparently had the human variant of a . A team of scientists, primarily from the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, made the discovery during efforts to of the extinct hominid. The findings push back the estimated timing of the gene's selective sweep (rapid spread of a gene mutation due to the survival advantage it conferred) from 200,000 to 350,000 years ago, when the common ancestor of Neandertals and humans roamed the earth. "From the point of this gene, there is no reason to think that Neandertals did not have language as we do," says Planck Institute geneticist Johannes Krause, a co-author of the study published in . "However, many other as yet unknown genes are involved in language, so in the future these will have to be found and looked at in Neandertals." The human version of the (short for ) (the closest living relative of humans) in two places along the genetic code, causing differences in two amino acids in the protein coded by the gene. was first tied to language in 2001, when a mutation in it was shown to affect a person's ability to speak. To determine which version of Neandertals carried, the research team extracted DNA from a well-preserved fossil found in the El Sidron Cave in northern Spain. This marks the first time a particular gene was sequenced from a Neandertal's nuclear DNA. Although DNA taken from the cellular mitochondria (energy centers) is typically easier to access, fossils are often contaminated by human contact. The team took steps to ensure they were sequencing Neandertal DNA and not modern human residues. Among them: sequencing specific parts of the Y chromosome and comparing them with those of modern human DNA. The samples were distinct, indicating that they were dealing with an authentic specimen. When the sequencing was complete, the Neandertal showed the same two mutations that the human gene carries (compared with the chimp version). The group did not find any genetic evidence of interbreeding between humans and Neandertals, leading them to conclude this incarnation of the gene must have propagated and spread prior to the genetic split of the two hominid species more than 300,000 years ago. Simon Fisher, a molecular neuroscientist at the University of Oxford in England, says the new work shows a better method for dating the evolution of certain genes, as opposed to inferring from changes throughout human evolution. He was more cautious about its link to Neandertal's speaking ability. "We do not think of FOXP2 as 'the speech gene,'" he says. "It is instead just one piece of a complicated puzzle, which likely involves many different factors.  The gene has been around for a very long time, found in similar form , and it may be important not only for brain development and function but also in other tissues." Krause says the Planck team will continue to and chart the evolution of other genes by comparing with Neandertal DNA. Some other candidates include which is tied to microcephaly (a condition when the head is disproportionately smaller than the body), and , implicated in skin pigmentation. German researchers have discovered Neandertals apparently had the human variant of a . A team of scientists, primarily from the Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology in Leipzig, made the discovery during efforts to of the extinct hominid. The findings push back the estimated timing of the gene's selective sweep (rapid spread of a gene mutation due to the survival advantage it conferred) from 200,000 to 350,000 years ago, when the common ancestor of Neandertals and humans roamed the earth. "From the point of this gene, there is no reason to think that Neandertals did not have language as we do," says Planck Institute geneticist Johannes Krause, a co-author of the study published in . "However, many other as yet unknown genes are involved in language, so in the future these will have to be found and looked at in Neandertals." The human version of the (short for ) (the closest living relative of humans) in two places along the genetic code, causing differences in two amino acids in the protein coded by the gene. was first tied to language in 2001, when a mutation in it was shown to affect a person's ability to speak. To determine which version of Neandertals carried, the research team extracted DNA from a well-preserved fossil found in the El Sidron Cave in northern Spain. This marks the first time a particular gene was sequenced from a Neandertal's nuclear DNA. Although DNA taken from the cellular mitochondria (energy centers) is typically easier to access, fossils are often contaminated by human contact. The team took steps to ensure they were sequencing Neandertal DNA and not modern human residues. Among them: sequencing specific parts of the Y chromosome and comparing them with those of modern human DNA. The samples were distinct, indicating that they were dealing with an authentic specimen. When the sequencing was complete, the Neandertal showed the same two mutations that the human gene carries (compared with the chimp version). The group did not find any genetic evidence of interbreeding between humans and Neandertals, leading them to conclude this incarnation of the gene must have propagated and spread prior to the genetic split of the two hominid species more than 300,000 years ago. Simon Fisher, a molecular neuroscientist at the University of Oxford in England, says the new work shows a better method for dating the evolution of certain genes, as opposed to inferring from changes throughout human evolution. He was more cautious about its link to Neandertal's speaking ability. "We do not think of FOXP2 as 'the speech gene,'" he says. "It is instead just one piece of a complicated puzzle, which likely involves many different factors.  The gene has been around for a very long time, found in similar form , and it may be important not only for brain development and function but also in other tissues." Krause says the Planck team will continue to and chart the evolution of other genes by comparing with Neandertal DNA. Some other candidates include which is tied to microcephaly (a condition when the head is disproportionately smaller than the body), and , implicated in skin pigmentation. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.