Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue also suggests by David Allen Sibley. Knopf, 2009 Naturalist and illustrator David Allen Sibley, best known for his guides to birds, turns his attention to the bark, leaves, fruits and flowers of more than 600 species of North American trees, such as the shagbark hickory.  by Frans de Waal. Harmony Books, 2009  "... don't believe anyone who says that since nature is based on a struggle for life, we need to live like this as well. Many animals survive not by eliminating each other or by keeping everything for themselves, but by cooperating and sharing. This applies most definitely to pack hunters, such as wolves or killer whales, but also our closest relatives, the primates. In a study in Tai National Park, in Ivory Coast, chimpanzees took care of group mates wounded by leopards, licking their blood, carefully removing dirt, and waving away flies that came near the wounds. They protected injured companions, and slowed down during travel in order to accommodate them. All of this makes perfect sense given that chimpanzees live in groups for a reason, the same way wolves and humans are group animals for a reason. If man is wolf to man, he is so in every sense, not just the negative one. We would not be where we are today had our ancestors been socially aloof. "What we need is a complete overhaul of assumptions about human nature. Too many economists and politicians model human society on the perpetual struggle they believe exists in nature, but which is a mere projection. Like magicians, they first throw their ideological prejudices into the hat of nature, then pull them out by their very ears to show how much nature agrees with them. It's a trick for which we have fallen for too long. Obviously, competition is part of the picture, but humans can't live by competition alone."  by Richard Holmes. Pantheon, 2009 by Richard Dawkins. Free Press, 2009 by Amir D. Aczel. Macmillan, 2009 by Brad Spellberg. Prometheus Books, 2009 by K. C. Cole. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2009 by Gordon Bell and Jim Gemmell. Dutton, 2009 by Jane Goodall, with Thane Maynard and Gail Hudson. Grand Central Publishing, 2009 by Nicholas A. Christakis and James H. Fowler. Little, Brown, 2009  October 23, 2009-March 28, 2010, at the Field Museum in Chicago. This permanent science and collections facility opens September 15, 2009, at the Natural History Museum in London. This article was originally published with the title "Humane HumansTree IDDiamonds on Display" in Scientific American  301, 4, 98-99 (October 2009) Kate Wong is a senior editor for evolution and ecology at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.