Read Our Latest Issue We don't know, but the idea is hardly crazy--and if the answer is yes, we could save many lives long before a vaccine arrives The ongoing tragedy of the COVID-19 pandemic afflicts every corner of the world. Vaccines may be our best hope for a safe return to workplaces, parties, stores and schools, but even if all leading vaccine candidates are protective, the British charity Oxfam estimates that of the world's population will not have access until at least 2022. We suggest a scalable alternative that may prevent morbidity and mortality from Covid-19 in the meantime: the common cold. We currently lack direct evidence that exposure to any of the four "common cold" coronaviruses protects against severe COVID-19. However, searching for that evidence should be a high priority. Just as Edward Jenner observed that cowpox exposure seemed to protect against smallpox and leveraged that discovery to save lives, future studies demonstrating even a small reduction in clinical severity of COVID-19 could enable safe, highly scalable, community-driven shCoV transmission programs (Fig. 1). Many people would welcome common cold symptoms from a virus they have previously endured in exchange for even a 10-20 percent reduction in the risk of severe illness or death. Today, we know that recent exposure to common-cold coronaviruses confers T cell cross-reactivity against components of SARS-CoV-2, and that people with stronger T cell responses tend to experience fewer COVID-19 symptoms. . We believe the scientific, ethical, and historical case for determining whether the common cold could save lives merits swift and thorough investigation. Kevin M. Esvelt is an assistant professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Media Laboratory, where he leads the Sculpting Evolution Group in exploring evolutionary and ecological engineering. Carolyn P. Neuhaus, Ph.D., is a philosopher and research scholar at The Hastings Center, an independent bioethics research institute, where she studies ethical issues in the development of new technologies, scientific research and medicine. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.