Read Our Latest Issue Turhan Canli of Stanford University and colleagues connected 12 men and 12 women to a functional magnetic resonance imager (fMRI) to examine their brain activity on a moment-to-moment basis. The team then asked the participants to rate the emotional intensity of pictures ranging from neutral (such as a fire hydrant) to very negative (such as mutilated bodies). The first hypothesis--that women experience life more intensely than men do-- predicts identical brain activation patterns in the two sexes. If, on the other hand, men and women actually use different neural networks to encode memories, their resulting brain patterns should be quite different. The researchers found support for the latter, observing that the female brain activation pattern is distinct from the male pattern. Women also rated more pictures as highly emotional. Three weeks later, the team surprised the subjects with a new test. Asked to note whether or not they remembered certain previously seen images, women recalled far more of the highly emotional pictures than did men. Furthermore, they again displayed a brain activation pattern with a greater number of stimulated areas, even when viewing pictures that both sexes had rated as equally disturbing. Both groups remembered neutral images similarly, however. "The data presented here demonstrate that men and women differ in the neural networks engaged during emotional experience and memory encoding," the authors write. "Greater overlap in brain regions sensitive to current emotion and contributing to subsequent memory," they add, "may be a neural mechanism for emotions to enhance memory more powerfully in women than in men." September 26, 2000  --  Kristin Leutwyler January 15, 2002  --  Sarah Graham November 29, 2001  --  JR Minkel February 5, 2001  --  Kristin Leutwyler Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.