Read Our Latest Issue The consortium of researchers involved in the Rat Genome Sequencing Project, led by Richard A. Gibbs of the Baylor College of Medicine, produced a 90-percent-complete "draft" sequence of the genome of the Brown Norway strain of the lab rat According to their report, published today in the journal the size of the rat genome falls between that of the mouse and the human, but all three contain a similar number of genes, 90 percent of which are shared among them. Scientists have long recognized that most human genes that are associated with diseases have parallels in the rat genome, but the exact locations of these genes in the rat were in many cases unknown. "The rat genome data [have] improved the utility of the rat model enormously," the team writes. "Now that near-complete knowledge of the rat gene content is realizable, individual researchers have a data source for the rat 'parts list' that can be explored with the high degree of confidence and precision that is appropriate for biomedical research." The results also suggest that rodent genes may mutate faster than human ones, perhaps hinting at diverse evolutionary mechanisms among mammals. "Any one organism is a unique solution to the evolutionary challenges it has faced," Gibbs says, and comparing them affords a look through the keyhole at the history of each species. Continuing its rodent work, the consortium is analyzing differences among various rat strains to determine the functions of specific genes. Meanwhile, efforts to sequence the genomes of other mammals--including the chimpanzee, macaque, dog, opossum and cow--are under way. April 1, 2004  --  Stephen J. Freeland and Laurence D. Hurst November 10, 2003 October 13, 2003 December 5, 2002  --  Sarah Graham Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.