Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Carbon structures provide new devices and remarkable physics Since the 1985 discovery of buckyballs (such as the buckminsterfullerene--a nanoscopic sphere of 60 carbon atoms connected in a pattern similar to a traditional soccer ball), researchers have focused intense attention on various chicken-wire-like carbon structures. The latest addition to the menagerie is graphene, a flat single layer of carbon atoms bonded together in the hexagonal pattern of graphite. In November 2005 two independent research groups, one led by of the University of Manchester in England and the other by of Columbia University, experimentally confirmed some extraordinary electronic properties of graphene: the effective mass of electrons in graphene is zero, and they behave like elementary particles obeying a version of Einsteinian relativity instead of Newton's laws of motion. The results open up a remarkable new domain of relativistic physics that can be explored in tabletop experiments. The development of graphene devices, which might eventually outperform silicon, took a major step forward when of the Georgia Institute of Technology, along with his collaborators there and at the National Center for Scientific Research in France, used standard microelectronics-industry techniques to make graphene transistors and other circuitry. The ease with which graphene can be shaped to order could give it the edge over carbon nanotubes, which are much harder to build into complex devices. Nanotube researchers are also continually breaking new ground. of the University of California, San Diego, and his colleagues there and at Clemson University demonstrated a radically new kind of nanotube-based transistor. Its novel Y shape allows for the elimination of a metal electrode that controls current flow, enabling the transistor to be much smaller than previous designs. In the field of macroscopic materials made of carbon nanotubes, , and of the NanoTech Institute at the University of Texas at Dallas, along with their collaborators there and at the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization in Belmont, Australia, developed an efficient new way to make thin sheets of nanotubes that might be rapidly adaptable to commercial production. The sheets are strong, lightweight, transparent, highly flexible and electrically conductive, ideally suiting them to be used as components of displays, solar cells, organic light-emitting diodes and artificial muscles, among other applications. Whether it is flat as in graphene or rolled up into nanotubes, the chicken-wire form of carbon continues to go from strength to strength. This article was originally published with the title "Chicken-Wire Electronics" in Scientific American  295, 6, 55 (December 2006) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1206-55b 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.