Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world Scientists spotted a 19-mile-wide crater hidden below Hiawatha Glacier in northwest Greenland. They believe it might represent a meteorite impact, but other experts say more evidence is needed to prove that the crater has an extraterrestrial origin. Rising e-cigarette use, or vaping, among teenagers has prompted the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to beef up efforts to combat youth smoking. The agency aims to ban menthol cigarettes, remove flavored cigars from the market and restrict the sale of vape flavors. One of the driest places on earth, the Atacama Desert, is losing its microbial life because of unprecedented rains. Frequent rainfall for the past three years has caused the massive extinction of native bacterial species, research suggests. An excavation near Cairo yielded dozens of mummified cats. Archaeologists also found two large mummified scarab beetles wrapped in linen and a rare collection of smaller scarab mummies. The tiny Pacific archipelago became the first country to prohibit the use of sunscreens containing coral-toxic ingredients, including oxybenzone and octinoxate. The measure follows a similar legislative decision in Hawaii that takes effect in 2021. Students in Cape Town made bricks using urine from men's toilets, in a biochemical process involving bacteria, calcium and sand. The bricks offer a productive--and odorless--way to recycle human pee. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  320, 2, 14 (February 2019) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0219-14b 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.