Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A preview by our editor in chief of the November issue of Perhaps it's natural, given the scale of these massive Egyptian icons of stone, that archaeologists have long focused on the construction methods and engineering used to create the Giza pyramids. Now we are at last learning that behind the heavenward movement of the looming tombs, there is an equally remarkable rise: that of an intricate and far-flung social network. New discoveries are revealing the real secrets of success for the pharaohs: government, labor and trade infrastructures that not only got the pyramids built but also set the stage for centuries of Egyptian prosperity and shaped the growth of civilization. The trade networks drew wealth to Egypt and powered the economies of its trading partners abroad. Turn to page 32 for our cover story, "The Pyramid Effect," by Zach Zorich. Modern trade--in olives and their precious oil--is thought to be under threat from a bacterial scourge, , being ferried by insects across groves in southern Italy. Whereas some have called for the seeming reliability of mass cuttings as a solution to prevent further spread, scientists remain uncertain about exactly how--or even whether--the bacterium is actually at fault for damaging the trees of Puglia. "Hard data are scarce," writes Barbie Latza Nadeau in "The Battle of Olives," starting on page 52, "so the scientists and local authorities tend to stay silent, which many growers interpret as a cover-up for ulterior motives." As scientists, farmers and officials struggle to bridge a gap in perception and shared understanding about a shared problem in the absence of sufficient data, I reflect on the paradox presented by "Baby Talk," by Patricia K. Kuhl, beginning on page 64: that kind of communication is child's play ... for youngsters. We are born with a fleeting ability to understand and master any of the world's 7,000 languages. Infants of just a few months of age can pick up the unique acoustic properties of languages from around the globe and speak in full sentences just a couple of years later. After the age of seven, fluency in a second language becomes more elusive. As always, I find myself marveling at the power of children to give us adults a lesson; see the accompanying box for more on that. Now in its fifth year, the Google Science Fair draws entries by students ages 13 to 18 from around the globe. 's $25,000 Innovator Award, for projects in biology, chemistry, physics or the behavioral sciences, went to Krtin Nithiyanandam. We also recognized Lalita Prasida Sripada Srisai with a $10,000 Community Impact Award. Both honors come with a year of mentoring and access to our 170 years of digital archives for the winners' schools ( ). This article was originally published with the title "Pyramids, Olives and Young Minds" in Scientific American  313, 5, 6 (November 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1115-6 Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.