Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue 's "How to Be a Better..." columnist Sunny Sea Gold and best-selling author Duhigg discuss what makes some people superhumanly productive I don't think there's anything wrong with trying to help folks--but at the end of the day, I think self-help has a very flimsy sound to it, and this book is based on a ton of reporting. Talking to researchers and neuroscientists, reporting in the field. I hope people will read this book and learn how to become more productive. Because at the core of productivity is this insight that you don't have to work harder, but you have to work smarter by essentially understanding how your brain works. And so, yes, it does have some self-help to it, but I hope in the best way. Actually, through the process of writing this book, I got much more productive. It helped me understand that there were changes I could make in my life that would really improve my productivity. A great example of this is to-do lists. The way I used to write them is kind of the way everyone does: I would write a couple of easy things on the top and at the bottom some of the big things I was hoping to get done. Sometimes at the very top, I'd even write something I'd because it felt good to sit down and cross something off right away. Until I talked to psychologists about it. They said, "You're using your to-do list for mood repair, not getting things done! You need to take those big, important goals and put them at the of the page, constantly remind yourself that there is something bigger and more important that you're chasing after, so you don't get distracted by the smaller things." These are called stretch goals--put these at the top of the page and underneath put those you need a plan for. Say specifically what you want to get done and how you are going to measure it. What's your timeline? These are known as SMART goals. The acronym stands for pecific, easurable, chievable, elevant and ime-bound. What really matters there is that I have a when I sit down at my desk in the morning. But also, just because I get through some subgoal, it doesn't let me [there]--it reminds me that I need to keep on going, that there's something bigger that I'm chasing after. [Laughing] I'm mediocre all the time! The reason I'm laughing is that sometimes I will actually ask my wife, "If I'm so smart, why do I keep making all these stupid mistakes?" The truth is, I think all of us struggle all the time; doing good work always involves some struggle. One of the things very productive people do is they're much more comfortable with tension and willing to embrace it. Like in the chapter on , the creators were willing to say that there's a problem and that we don't have the answer yet--we're eventually going to find it, but it's going to be really hard until we do. Some people back away or shut down when it gets hard. Really productive people say, "This is hard, and that's okay. It means I'm on the right path." We know that as we are becoming increasingly automated, the odds of having these lapses in attention become more and more real because people become less aware of what's around them. That's why building mental models is so useful [in practicing for potential outcomes]. On the subway in the morning, for instance, I used to use the time to read the newspaper. Now what I do is I look at my calendar and close my eyes and try to envision my day a little bit. I think through, "What do I expect to happen in that meeting or this one? What might go awry?" Engaging in this seven-minute exercise sharpens my focus so that when things happen that might have caught me off guard, I'm prepared for the unexpected because I've thought it through. Our four-year-old does the same thing! My wife and I love it--he just kind of starts . One of the things we know about most productive people is they tend to be much more conscious about what's happening in their head. They assert more control over their cognitive processes. For kids, this is just natural. They tend to tell us what they're thinking about and how they're thinking about it because it's all so new. At the end of the day, [increasing productivity] is really about appreciating how your brain works and taking advantage of what we've learned from neuroscience. One of the big things to take away from this is that most of us are doing great. Right? When we talk about productivity, we're not talking about jamming more work or hours into the day; we're talking about letting people achieve their goals with less stress and less waste and less struggle. For some, it might mean making reading and sending e-mails easier. For others, it may be getting more time with your kids. Part of the critical choices that people need to make to become more productive is to ask themselves, "What does productivity actually mean to me? What do I want to get out of the day, the week or my life?" You don't want to be running toward the wrong finish line. This article was originally published with the title "Q&A with Charles Duhigg: Smarter Faster Better: The Secrets of Being Productive in Life and Business" in SA Mind 27, 4, 69-70 (July 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0716-69b Sunny Sea Gold is a health and psychology writer, the "How to Do Anything Better" columnist for , and the author of (Berkley Books, 2011). July 1, 2016  --  Lindsey Konkel, Robert Epstein, Sunny Sea Gold and Victoria Stern Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.