Read Our Latest Issue Occasional but extreme climate could turn parts of the Amazon rain forest into dry savannas This somber prediction comes out of the latest findings of the Large Scale Biosphere/Atmosphere Experiment in Amazonia, the most ambitious field project ever done in a tropical ecosystem. Since 1999 the experiment, sponsored by the Brazilian government, NASA and the European Union, has brought together 800 scientists, who have been probing the six-million-square-kilometer jungle with instrument-laden towers, airplanes and satellites in a quest to understand how the forest works. The researchers still have a long way to go for a complete picture. But they think they now know enough to begin to assess how the complex Amazon ecosystem will react to global warming, increased carbon dioxide (which acts as fertilizer) and other changes. Two studies in the project suggest a trend toward the formation of savannas at the eastern and southern parts of the forest. A key factor is deforestation, which alone in the eastern Amazon could tip the ecosystem toward a drier state. Plants in that region, which is naturally drier than other parts of the forest, help to keep moisture in the area by recycling water through evaporation and transpiration. Without the flora, drought sets in. The mean temperature also goes up. Change in land use may also dry up the forest in a less straightforward way: by altering the physical properties of rain clouds. In a series of experiments carried out with aircraft flying through smoke plumes during forest fires, a team led by physicist Maria Assuncao da Silva Dias of the National Institute for Space Research and her colleague Paulo Artaxo of the University of Sao Paulo has found that smoke aerosols probably inhibit formation of big water drops, producing clouds that are incapable of rain. Climatologist Carlos A. Nobre, a leading scientist at the Brazilian National Institute for Space Research, has factored the effects of deforestation and global warming into a computer model that couples vegetation changes with standard global circulation models. In one of Nobre's scenarios, by 2100 up to 60 percent of the forest will turn into , the type of savanna that dominates the landscape in central Brazil. Such a shift in land cover might be hard to reverse. "We are forcing the forest system into a new state of equilibrium," he says. The effects of warming by itself are harder to elucidate. But atmospheric scientist Steven C. Wofsy of Harvard University and his colleagues have devised a novel way to estimate the impact of climate change on the current state of the forest. The researchers looked at the likelihood of extreme events, such as abnormal droughts, and matched them to field observations of the drought-sensitive vegetation of Tapajos National Forest in central-eastern Amazonia in the Brazilian state of Para. They then used their model to generate a simulation spanning 2,500 years and found that forest gives way to when more than 33 years of drought occur in a century. "You end up bisecting the Amazon with savannas," remarks Lucy Hutyra, a member of Wofsy's team. The take-home message, she says, is that the extremes are more important than the averages. In a global change scenario, the temperature can rise without signs of ecosystem disturbance in the Amazon. But on the scale of centuries, some areas of the forest, such as the Tapajos region, are highly sensitive to variability. "There is a lot of deadwood and fuel for fire," Wofsy explains. "Suppose you have 10 or 20 years in which nothing happens, then one of those droughts strikes and there is a fire. If the fire isn't too severe, the forest recovers. If it comes again in 25 years or 15 years, everything is destroyed." This article was originally published with the title "Punctuated Disequilibrium" doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0205-22 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.