Read Our Latest Issue It isn't a myth: one dose of cocaine is all it takes to prime your brain for addiction. Scientists from the University of California at San Francisco Ernest Gallo Clinic and Research Center report in today's issue of that a single exposure to the drug causes a weeklong surge in brain activity associated with forming a habit. Indeed, Antonello Bonci, Mark Ungless and their colleagues discovered that cocaineand very likely other drugs of abuse"hijack" the same chemical mechanisms that normally reinforce learning and memories in the brain. The researchers studied long-term potentiation, a process mediated by the neurotransmitter glutamate in which the connections between neurons are strengthened during learning. But instead of focusing on LTP in the hippocampusas has been the normthey looked at the ventral tegmental area (VTA) in the brains of cocaine-treated mice. They found that glutamate activated two types of excitatory receptors on the dopamine neurons in the VTA and, as a result, these dopamine neurons showed a lasting and heightened response to glutamate. "When you learn something, you might expect to see a change in very few synaptic connectionsthe junctions between communicating neurons," Ungless says. "What's so amazing is that nearly all dopamine neurons are affected by this single cocaine exposure. This kind of response is extremely rare and would have a profound effect throughout the brain, particularly in other areas involved in addiction." The sheer extent of these brain changes means that they probably affect a range of behaviors related to drug abuse, including increased sensitivity and relapse. The challenge now, Bonci says, "is how to develop drugs that interfere with these concaine-induced changes but not with normal memory functions." November 24, 1997  --  Alan Hall and Kristin Leutwyler May 11, 2001  --  Sergio Pistoi March 7, 2001  --  Kristin Leutwyler March 2, 2001  --  Kate Wong Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.