Read Our Latest Issue The March 12 episode features a mock issue of will make another television appearance tonight (other TV roles include the topic of conversation on episodes of the sitcoms and as well as set dressing on and ). In the plot of the Thursday, March 12 episode of , (spoiler alert) the magazine runs a story about a scientific paper that characters Sheldon Cooper and Leonard Hofstadter published about . A row ensues when Hofstadter realizes that only Cooper was mentioned in our coverage.   talked to executive producer and showrunner Steven Molaro about writing for scientist characters and getting the science right.     [ ]   I suppose the biggest challenges are getting the science correct and presenting it in a way that's understandable--and if it's too complex to be easily understood, it should at least be interesting to hear about.   Thanks to Dr. , our , we have a solid track record so far. Although I do think people may have complained in the past that his handwriting was sloppy on the whiteboard.   Our science consultant is definitely the first line of defense. After that it would be the more science-minded writers that work on the show. And, of course, there's always Wikipedia!   We use a combination of dialogue, props and the whiteboards all the time on the show. It's usually much more interesting when a visual element like the board or actual science equipment and demonstrations can be included. Speaking of the whiteboard, we had done an episode about . If you look carefully at the , you can see the equation Indiana Jones had on his blackboard in the movie. There has been a bit of controversy over that equation since many people feel it doesn't make any sense.   We have heard that enrollment in the hard sciences has increased since the show's debut, but I don't have any statistics.   I suppose the trick is having smart writers with a fondness for trivia and a robust vocabulary--also a good thesaurus doesn't hurt.   We wanted a science journal to write about Leonard and Sheldon's paper. If that journal's name carried weight, it would only make the stakes of the story that much heftier. We were thrilled was willing to work with us to make it happen! May 1, 2013  --  Erik Vance October 31, 2010  --  Robin Lloyd Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.