Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Mosquitoes--and the parasites and viruses that they carry--are pushing up the incidence of malaria globally and causing periodic explosive outbreaks of Rift Valley fever, which first brings on flulike symptoms but can turn into a severe hemorrhagic fever akin to Ebola.* Bluetongue virus, a ruminant virus spread by midges that was once confined to tropical areas, has reached as far as Norway. Studies have shown shifts in cholera transmission with recent climate variability. As emerging diseases migrate to new areas, they encounter new species, making outbreaks even more difficult to manage. Unfortunately, writes journalist Lois Parshley in her feature article " ," the common enabler for the movement of each of these ailments is human-caused climate change. As weather patterns wreak more havoc, a Pandora's box of microbes enters new terrain, stressing global public health systems. Parshley's article is part of an important special report on " ." In the package, contributing editor Melinda Wenner Moyer describes the " ": a resurgence of infectious disease outbreaks that are sickening thousands. Before vaccines, better sanitation and indoor plumbing, the root causes of such waves of illness and death were mainly biological: viruses, bacteria and parasites. Now they are social as well: growing income inequality in the U.S. has led to rising rates of hepatitis A, Legionnaires' disease and other scourges. The problems are hardly confined to poor neighborhoods, although they may reemerge there. Once an outbreak occurs, it's not choosy about whom it infects. After a formidable flu season this year, associate editor Dina Fine Maron looks " ." Such alterations are happening whether we want to use the words "climate change" or not. Whether we acknowledge the scientific consensus, demonstrated in thousands of studies over decades, climate change is both real and promoted by human activities. Coastal communities are being affected by rising seas, drought-prone areas are arid for longer periods and, as our report shows, infectious agents are taking advantage of these more extreme weather patterns. For more than 170 years has ably chronicled how advances in science and technology have advanced discovery and shaped the world. But I think we all could do a better job communicating the value of an evidence-based view for addressing human problems. For this reason, I have agreed to join the Advisory Committee for the Climate Communications Initiative of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. You can learn more about it here: . As always, I welcome your comments. This article was originally published with the title "Our Planet, Ourselves" in Scientific American  318, 5, 4 (May 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0518-4 Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.