Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Books and recommendation from  by Edward O. Wilson. Liveright, 2012 The Harvard University naturalist and Pulitzer Prize winner angered many colleagues two years ago, when he repudiated a concept within evolutionary theory that he had brought to prominence. Known as kin selection or inclusive fitness, the half-century-old idea helped to explain the puzzling existence of altruism among animals. Why, for instance, do some birds help their parents raise chicks instead of having chicks of their own? Why are worker ants sterile? The answer, according to kin selection theory, has been that aiding your relatives can sometimes spread your common genes faster than bearing offspring of your own. In , Wilson offers a full explanation of his latest thinking on evolution. Group dynamics, not selfish genes, drive altruism, he argues: "Colonies of cheaters lose to colonies of cooperators." As the cooperative colonies dominate and multiply, so do their alleged "altruism" genes. Wilson uses what he calls "multilevel selection"--group and individual selection combined--to discuss the emergence of the creative arts and humanities, morality, religion, language and the very nature of humans. Along the way, he pauses to reject religion, decry the way humans have despoiled the environment and, in something of a non sequitur, dismiss the need for manned space exploration. The book is bound to stir controversy on these and other subjects for years to come.  by Michel Mitov. Translated by Giselle Weiss. Harvard University Press, 2012 A slim, engaging volume that mixes mini lessons on such subjects as thixotropic fluids--think house paint and ballpoint pen ink, both of which flow when someone applies pressure to them but gel when left alone--with anecdotes from the author's adventurous life. In one, Mitov, a liquid-crystal expert in France, travels to Naples, Italy, to solve the mystery behind a religious ritual: why a vial of dried "blood" associated with the martyr San Gennaro often liquefies when brought near the saint's relics. Although Mitov fails to find a definite answer, he concludes it must be a "yield-stress fluid" that changes with time, temperature and touch. Readers come away from the book with a renewed appreciation for the complexity of such everyday substances as  champagne, rubber and toothpaste.  by Christof Koch. MIT Press, 2012 Neuroscientist Koch first stumbled across Francis Crick, the preeminent molecular biologist, lounging under an apple tree in Germany. A few years later the two launched a decades-long inquiry into the problem of consciousness. The hunt for the essential substrate of our every thought propels Koch through a whirlwind tour of neuroscience, philosophy, physics and information science. The power of the mind's "zombie routines"--those neural machinations, underneath our awareness, that drive a startling number of our decisions and actions--further underscores the mystery of consciousness. We may be less free than we think, but Koch clings to the belief that we are still the masters of our own lives.   . Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum, Washington, D.C. The former workhorse of the U.S. space fleet is due to arrive at the museum's Udvar-Hazy Center near Dulles International Airport on April 19. Check the museum's Web site for updates:   . American Museum of Natural History, New York City. Open until January 6, 2013. Visitors learn about the nature of bioluminescence in mushrooms, fireflies and sea creatures and the ways scientists study the phenomenon. Anna Kuchment is a contributing editor at and a staff science writer at the . Previously a reporter, writer and editor with magazine, she is also author of , which is about bacteriophage viruses and their potential as weapons against antibiotic resistance. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.