Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue within the crust, thereby modifying local gravity. But because of imprecise, unstable instruments, scientists could monitor these changes only with the aid of long records before and after quakes. Japanese investigators have devised a much quicker method. They monitored how superconducting balls respond to gravity while trapped floating in ultrastable magnetic fields generated by superconducting coils. After accounting for the separate pulls of the sun, moon, air, ocean and the earth's rotation, the researchers detected a permanent increase in gravity roughly a half billionth that of the earth's pull southeast off the coast of Hokkaido, the epicenter of the magnitude 8 Tokachi-oki quake in 2003. The results, in the October 15 Science, agree with theoretical predictions, suggesting that superconducting gravimeters can help satellites chart the earth's gravity to map changes in polar ice cap thickness, seawater levels, atmospheric density and planetary geology. This article was originally published with the title "Shaky Gravity Boost" in Scientific American  292, 1, 28 (January 2005) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0105-28b Charles Q. Choi is a frequent contributor to . His work has also appeared in and among others. In his spare time, he has traveled to all seven continents. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.