Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Also: Heating genes with sonic waves, cannibalistic beetles, calcium in the ocean, and more... Fans of club music and rock concerts who like the volume cranked up to 11 but want to save their hearing might someday pop a pill rather than plugging their ears. Scientists have pinpointed the biochemical mechanism in ears that works to limit damaging effects of loud sound. When a noise registers in the brain as too loud, the protein nAChR, located on sensory hair cells in the inner ear, kicks in to limit the ability of the hair cells to respond. Mice genetically altered to produce a more potent nAChR could not hear soft sounds, and they suffered less permanent damage to their hearing when scientists blasted 100-decibel noise at their ears. "We know some drugs can modify the protein," says Paul Fuchs of Johns Hopkins University, who published the findings in the January 20 PLoS Biology. "But we need to know more about specific amounts" before a sound-protecting drug can be made. So don't toss the earplugs yet.  Fish excrement could solve a decades-old ocean mystery. After marine plankton die, their calcium carbonate exoskeletons dissolve, making seawater alkaline; however, past studies found that the surface waters are more alkaline than expected from plankton. Now scientists at the University of Exeter in England and their colleagues have determined that calcium carbonate "gut rocks," first found in toadfish intestines about 20 years ago, could account for a dramatic percentage of marine carbonate. Their computer models estimate roughly 812 billion to two trillion kilograms of bony fish swim in the ocean, producing some 110 billion kilograms of calcium carbonate annually. The amount constitutes at least 3 to 15 percent of the total ocean carbonate production and possibly up to 45 percent. Increasing sea temperature and rising carbon dioxide this century could cause fish to produce even more calcium carbonate, the researchers suggest in the January 16 .  Racial profiling makes little sense, mathematically speaking. Using statistical analyses, William Press of the University of Texas at Austin has found that choosing people to screen based on ethnicity is no more effective than random checks, because nonterrorists vastly outnumber terrorists. The optimal way to screen would be to use "square-root-biased sampling," so that someone nine times as likely to be a terrorist as the average traveler would be screened three times more frequently. This approach would turn up more terrorists in part by avoiding the repeated screening of the same innocent people who fit the profile. But because that strategy would be difficult to implement, Press says that mathematically, the more sensible method is not to profile at all. The study appears in the February 10  Heating from sonic waves can turn on genes in the body, demonstrate researchers at the University Victor Segalen Bordeaux in France and their colleagues. Using mice engineered with a bioluminescent gene containing a heat-sensitive stretch of DNA, they focused high-intensity ultrasound pulses on a 0.5-millimeter-wide patch of the mice's legs, heating up that area just below the skin's surface to about 43 degrees Celsius (109 degrees Fahrenheit). Light given off revealed that the gene became active. The technique could help gene therapy, which introduces beneficial DNA into patients. When and where these genes are expressed is paramount, and currently small-molecule drugs and ionizing radiation are employed to switch genes on. But chemicals are not precise, and rays can trigger cancer. The challenge for ultrasound activation, published January 27 by the , is safely getting the waves deep enough to reach organs.  No points for guessing what dung beetles eat. Feces are so rich with nourishing bacteria that 80 or more species of the beetle can live in the same area. Under such intense competition for droppings, one species has gone entirely from scavenging to preying. Through 11 months of recording with infrared cameras in the Peruvian jungle, Trond Larsen of Princeton University and his colleagues found that an eight-millimeter-long nocturnal dung beetle, , devours millipedes up to 13 times larger than itself. The beetle kills by wrapping its legs around a victim, wedging its serrated head between the prey's segments and then ripping the body apart. The head of this species is unusually narrow for dung beetles all the better to burrow inside a corpse to dine on the innards, the researchers note in their report, published online January 21 by .  Regulators may protect a fishery before anyone even had a chance to cast a net. Melting sea ice and the migration of salmon and other fish farther north make the Arctic region attractive. Because of a lack of studies detailing the impact of commercial fishing in the area, the U.S. North Pacific Fishery Management Council charged with administering Alaskan waters voted unanimously on February 5 to close off to any fishing all U.S. waters north of the Bering Strait some 196,000 square miles of ocean. Studies to determine safe harvesting levels and the impact on indigenous people would be required before any fishing could begin. The proposed prohibition does not mean that the entire Arctic is safe seven other countries have claims there, including Norway, which has already begun fishing in its waters.  6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.