Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Science in meter and verse Absent of taproot, the black spruce leans madly where permafrost slumps into thermokarst. Who wouldn't fall down soused when the ground beneath began to melt, to buckle and sink? Who wouldn't drink? In the boreal forests, in a landscape staggered with lurching birches, ice is a memory, while farther north, where glaciers begin to thin, ice is memory, or the keeper of memories, a kind of collective mind in which buried deep are layers of ancient volcanic ash, soot from fires primeval, banked bubbles of archaic air-- stories stored, frozen, in cerulean cerebral cortex, a vortex stilled, which soon may spill. The polar ice, in stripes, remembers what we weren't here to recall, but as with all memory, what is buried in the blue yonder--if it escapes the icescape-- could kill us. Deep memory is a danger zone. Ice is another nether. No wonder it numbs. No wonder it burns. This article was originally published with the title "North of the Drunken Forest" in Scientific American  322, 6, 20 (June 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0620-20 Jessica Goodfellow, a teacher and editor living in Japan, is author of the poetry collections and, most recently, . Her work has appeared in and other anthologies. Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.