Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A classic data visualization brought an astronomical curiosity to music lovers Fifty years ago this month Harold D. Craft, Jr., published a remarkable in his Ph.D. dissertation at Cornell University. A stacked series of jagged lines displayed incoming , as detected at Arecibo Observatory in Puerto Rico. Several months later the chart appeared as a full-page visualization in , this time with white lines on a field of cyan. A pulsar is a rapidly rotating neutron star that emits a radio-frequency beam that sweeps through space like a lighthouse beacon. In the graphic, 80 consecutive pulses--recorded at a frequency of 318 megahertz--are stacked. One pulse ( ) lasts about 0.04 second, with peak intensity near the center. Pulses occur every 1.337 seconds. In 1979 the chart took a big step into public consciousness. Designer Peter Saville featured a white-on-black version as cover art for the English rock band Joy Division's album, with no band name, album title or other identifiers--a bold move. On we honor Craft's work and a data visualization that made the leap from student research to pop culture icon. This article was originally published with the title "Pulsar as Pop Icon" in Scientific American  323, 3, 88 (September 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0920-88 Jen Christiansen is senior graphics editor at . 5 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 6 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 7 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.