Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The apology matters less than altering your level of engagement according to your partner's needs After a fight, most people want their partner to either disengage or to engage more meaningfully, according to a study of 953 married or cohabitating couples in the June 2013 issue of the . Which strategy to use depends on your partner's underlying concern in the argument: is he or she perceiving a threat or neglect? A perceived threat encompasses anything that puts a partner's status in doubt, such as blame, criticism or demands, explains lead author Keith Sanford, a psychologist at Baylor University. In these scenarios, the offended party is more likely to want their partner to passively disengage by halting adversarial behavior and relinquishing power. "Giving up power comes in many forms, among them, admitting faults, showing respect and being willing to compromise," Sanford says. When perceiving neglect, individuals wanted their partner to actively engage by showing investment, communicating more and giving affection. No matter what the tenor of the fight, the participants ranked an apology as the least important factor in resolving the issue. This article was originally published with the title "After an Argument" in SA Mind 25, 1, 11 (January 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0114-11a 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.