Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Science in meter and verse I name them Upright, Lengthwise, Split Down the Middle: these granites strewn like milky stars. You could orient by them, find your way through creek, meadow, and wood. This one is here, and that one is there, its neighbor next to both, old friends grinding down shards of philosophy. It could take a million years to see the argument to conclusion, points split finer and finer, rubbed to a sheen, into pebbles, then to sand in an hourglass. They record the course of floods, huddle together beneath parent slopes where they were wrenched and scraped by glaciers, shaped and molded by teachers of ice, which explains their patience and hardness, having been milled so interminably slowly to an exacting rule. Now they languish, sun seeping into feldspars and micas, into the quartzes until they quiver with pure excitation--in heat and cold, wind and stillness, through minutes and millennia-- and still radiate impassiveness. This article was originally published with the title "The Boulders of Lyell Canyon" in Scientific American  322, 5, 22 (May 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0520-22 Janet MacFadyen is author of five works of poetry, most recently , a collaboration with photographer Stephen Schmidt (New Feral Press, 2019), and (Dos Madres Press, 2017). She holds a degree in geology and has written articles on natural history for . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.