Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The discovery could help us understand how planets and solar systems form Best known for its stunning rings, Saturn also boasts a fleet of 62 moons--ranging from giant Titan, which is larger than the planet Mercury, to one as small as the ocean liner . Now astronomers may be witnessing something they have never seen before: the birth of a moon out of the same rings that make Saturn such a spectacle. "The discovery was accidental," says Carl Murray, a planetary scientist at Queen Mary, University of London. In April 2013 he was examining fresh images of Saturn's moons taken by the Cassini spacecraft when he noticed a bright feature more than 1,000 kilometers long at the edge of the A ring, the outermost of Saturn's three main rings. The bright spot may signal the presence of a new moon struggling to arise, Murray and his colleagues speculate in the July 1 issue of the journal . The new moon is less than a kilometer across, too small to be seen--until something hit the moon last year and produced the flare-up that attracted his attention. The A ring is ripe for spawning new moons because the gravitational influence of a larger satellite, Janus, located beyond the ring causes particles at the ring's outer edge to congregate. If the particles form a big enough clump, their own gravity should then attract more material, eventually creating a moon. Murray thinks this one formed recently but does not know whether it was born just a few years ago or millions of years earlier. Jeff Cuzzi of the nasa Ames Research Center, who was not involved in the discovery, has little doubt that Murray has found a nascent moon. The more important question now, he says, regards the moon's fate: Will it successfully migrate out of the rings to take its place among the established moons, or will it disintegrate? The fledgling moon still faces some challenges. Because it is presumably made of water ice, like Saturn's rings, impacts from meteoroids could pulverize it in the next few million years. Murray hopes to catch a direct sighting in 2016, when Cassini skirts close enough to the A ring to capture a good image. Saturn's ring system resembles a young star's protoplanetary disk in that each is flat and revolves around a massive object. The moon's creation could yield insight into how planets are born. Saturn's rings may therefore offer a microcosm of newborn solar systems throughout the galaxy. This article was originally published with the title "A Moonlet Is Born" in Scientific American  311, 1, 21 (July 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0714-21 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.