Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue How consumers can compare plug-in vehicles with their gasoline-powered cousins The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has an electric car problem. Federal law requires that new cars be sold with a label that includes the vehicle's fuel efficiency as measured in miles per gallon. Yet beginning next year, gallons will start to give way to watts, prompting the EPA to redesign their window stickers. In an attempt to smooth the transition, the EPA has adopted a new unit called miles per gallon of gasoline-equivalent (MPGe). Basically, it is a conversion factor that measures the electricity required to run the car (usually expressed in kilowatt-hours) in another unit of energy: gallons of gasoline. An all-electric vehicle should get somewhere north of 100 MPGe, even though it will never use a drop of gas. The new figure doesn't clear up the apples-to-oranges problem, however. Consumers tend to use the old-fashioned MPG metric as shorthand for many things--including how green the car is and the cost of driving--that don't jibe neatly with MPGe. For example, the carbon footprint of an electric vehicle strongly depends on local electricity sources [see " ," by Michael Moyer; , July]. With so many factors to consider, the EPA created two sticker prototypes. One throws together all the information a consumer could possibly want to know in one place. The other takes the opposite approach. It is dominated by a single letter grade--A+ through D (there are no failures here)--which encapsulates all those factors in one score. Unfortunately, this simple measure would score 88 percent of all vehicles between a B and a C. "You need sufficient resolution to allow customers who say 'I want a minivan' or 'I want a midsize SUV' to meaningfully cross-shop vehicles that are similar," says John M. DeCicco, a senior lecturer at the University of Michigan's School of Natural Resources and Environment. "Letter grades fail on that score." A closer look at that sticker reveals a more important figure: how much the car will cost to operate compared with the average vehicle. Critically, the EPA adds up five years' worth of driving. "It takes differences that are small and that you might ignore and makes them substantial but not in a misleading way--five years is an amount of time you're likely to spend with your car," says Richard Larrick of Duke University's Fuqua School of Business. Larrick and his colleagues have shown that simply scaling up numbers influences consumer choice. For example, students, offered an option of two movie rental plans, were more likely to choose an extended plan when the number of movies in the plan was tallied by the year, not the month. Similarly, the EPA stickers should have the effect of promoting vehicles that are less expensive to operate, like electric cars. Good-bye gallons, and good riddance. Michael Moyer is the editor in charge of physics and space coverage at Scientific American. Previously he spent eight years at Popular Science magazine, where he was the articles editor. He was awarded the 2005 American Institute of Physics Science Writing Award for his article "Journey to the 10th Dimension," and has appeared on CBS, ABC, CNN, Fox and the Discovery Channel. He studied physics at the University of California at Berkeley and at Columbia University. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.