Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue reviews and What if we could anticipate well in advance the outcome of an election or the impact of a natural disaster? Psychologist Philip E. Tetlock and journalist Dan Gardner explore how well we can foretell the future in their provocative new book (Crown, 2015; 352 pages). According to Tetlock, most people are pretty bad at judging future events. But decades of research have led him to recognize special individuals he calls "superforecasters." They tend to be open to new ideas, flexible thinkers and okay with getting things wrong. The good news, he reveals, is that it may be possible for everyone to improve their forecasting prowess: ultimately the art of prediction may be less about getting the right answer and more about understanding that answer is right or wrong. But how can we make good predictions if our reasoning skills are inherently flawed? In (Princeton University Press, 2015; 288 pages), Nobel Prize-winning economists George A. Akerlof and Robert J. Shiller argue that we frequently make decisions that are not in our best interests. They define "phishing" as the ability to artificially lure and deceive others and "phools" as victims of phishing. In psychological terms, phools come in two flavors: psychological phools fail to follow common sense, whereas informational ones misinterpret reality and act on that misinformation. Using compelling examples of flawed decision making from advertising, health care and personal finances, the authors identify our rational weak spots and arm readers with the ability to resist manipulation. This article was originally published with the title "Roundup: Think Smart" in SA Mind 27, 2, 69 (March 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0316-69a Victoria Stern is a contributing editor at . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.