Read Our Latest Issue Olympic competitors such as Apolo Ohno are down near the 2 percent body-fat range. How do they get so lean, and is it wise to do so? Having won six medals in his career, Seattle-based speed skater Apolo Ohno stands to make U.S. history if he wins another one in upcoming short-track competition--the 1,000-meter race this weekend or the 5,000-meter relay on February 26. In various reports, Ohno has said that he's in the best physical shape of his life, weighing five kilograms less than he did for the 2006 Games in Torino, Italy, and nine kilograms less than he did for the 2002 Salt Lake City Olympics. Ohno is now 65 kilograms of almost pure : only 2.8 percent of his body consists of fat.   , of course, are expected to be slimmer than the rest of us. The average amount of body fat in the U.S. is 22 percent for men and 32 percent for women, although most experts believe a healthier body-fat content is 15 percent for men and 22 percent for women, according to , a book by nutritionist Covert Bailey. Ohno's fat level, though, is down there even for an athlete.  So how low is too low? After all, fat is crucial for normal physiology--it helps support the skin and keep it lubricated, cushions feet, sheaths neurons, stores vitamins, and is a building block of hormones.   , an assistant professor at the University of Waterloo in Ontario who specializes in nutrition, exercise and metabolism, gives the skinny on athletes' fat.      It takes a long time to achieve and maintain these low levels of body fat. It really comes down to balance. Energy in equals energy out. With increased energy expenditure and lower caloric intake, you can tip the scale to reduce weight.    Athletes have to take in adequate amounts of protein to maintain muscle mass, and they still have to take in adequate amounts of carbohydrate to maintain optimal training intensities. If they do this properly, they can maintain heavy workout sessions and lose fat without compromising their performance.    Meat, fish, poultry and dairy are good protein sources. But they also need to take in a fair amount of carbohydrates. When you're training at high intensities, you're burning more carbs. When those stores deplete, your body has to use something else--this could be fat, but it could be protein. People don't always appreciate how difficult it is to lose fat without losing protein. For athletes to maintain a high level of performance and low body fat, it means they have to a have a really good balance in their diet in order to maintain their health.    Athletes should not be "dieting" three to four months prior to a major competition. They should be weight stable by the time the competition date arrives. Any changes in weight, if an athlete has that as a goal, would happen much earlier in training to avoid problems with performance and potential injury.    It really depends on the sport an athlete is involved with. For example, snowboarders probably have a normal amount of fat, whereas long-distance and endurance athletes [like speed skaters, cross-country skiers and biathletes] likely have less.    They're not very accurate. Dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry [DXA--the same technology used to measure bone mineral density], magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography are highly precise--[each] can measure fat to within 2 percent accuracy. DXA is probably most common in research, because MRI and CT [which can also determine body composition] are so expensive and inaccessible.  Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.