Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A new device lets the disabled move and communicate with their noses The key to restoring movement and communication for the severely disabled may lie on the roofs of our mouths. Researchers have invented a device that allows the paralyzed to write, surf the Web and steer an electric wheelchair--all by sniffing. Initial tests, described recently in , suggest that patients with severe paralysis may soon have a new way of doing everyday tasks. Sniffing is controlled in part by cranial nerves in the soft palate, the tissue lining the back of the roof of the mouth. Because these nerves emerge directly from the brain, as opposed to the spinal cord, they remain intact for many severely paralyzed people. They also control the ability to blink, sip and puff. The sniff controller, which was developed by Anton Plotkin and his colleagues at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot, Israel, uses a small plastic tube that fits into the nose. It measures pressure, translating variations in intensity and frequency of sniffing in and out into commands for a computer or wheelchair. In the study, the researchers tested the controller on 15 disabled patients; 13 used the technology to write messages or surf the Web and one to maneuver his wheelchair. (The 15th volunteer made no progress.) Further testing is required, but Plotkin is optimistic: "We figured out that sniffing can control just about anything." Ferris Jabr is a contributing writer for . He has also written for the , the and . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.