Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The filmlike patches can keep track of brain activity, medication needs, wound healing and more "Electronic skin" is blurring the lines between biological tissue and electronics. These filmlike patches, , contain incredibly thin circuits, sensors and other electronic components and mount onto the skin with all the flexibility and stretchiness of a temporary tattoo. Within the past few months scientists have demonstrated numerous practical applications for the devices, setting the stage for a revolution in health care monitoring. When placed on the forehead, it can and provide electroencephalographic data just as well as conventional wired devices while being far more comfortable and less motion-restrictive--a boon for neonatal intensive care units. By measuring temperature changes near a surgical wound, it can . It can also gauge how well a cut is healing by measuring hydration levels (proper recovery requires moisture). When integrated with an accelerometer, it can data throughout the day. This information is vital to understanding how a patient with Parkinson's disease, for instance, responds to new treatments. With memory, physiological sensors and onboard prescription drugs, it can store diagnostic information and then when a patient needs it. Applied surgically, large electronic-skin membranes can envelope the heart to or possibly to function as low-energy pacemakers or implantable cardioverter defibrillators (devices that help to control irregular heartbeats) in the future. This article was originally published with the title "The Circuit Made for Your Arm" in Scientific American  311, 1, 26 (July 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0714-26b 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.