Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The brown thornbill scares away its attacker by pretending an even bigger bird is nearby In the classic story, a boy tries to repeatedly fool his town into believing that there is a wolf on the prowl. This morality tale ends poorly for the boy, but a small Australian bird can do one better. When a pied currawong goes looking for brown thornbill nestlings to eat, the thornbill parents call wolf--or, actually, they call hawk. The false alarms fool the currawong into thinking that its own predator, the brown goshawk, is nearby. The tiny thornbill thus effectively outsmarts its large enemy. To explore how this sophisticated ruse works, biologist Branislav Igic, then at the Australian National University, and his colleagues positioned a taxidermied currawong near thornbill nests while broadcasting nestling distress calls. The thornbills sounded their hawk alarm calls and even mimicked the alarms of other species. Igic also tested 18 currawongs by broadcasting the sounds of the thornbills' mimetic and nonmimetic hawk calls. He found that the playback discouraged the currawongs from hunting. The results were published this past spring in the . The researchers think that alarm calls from what sounds like multiple callers might make the warning seem more reliable. "Birds can adapt some very interesting and unique strategies to protect their young," says Igic, who is now at the University of Akron. The thornbills' own hawk calls fooled the currawongs for 8.3 seconds on average, but when Igic included the mimicked calls, too, the currawongs were distracted twice as long. That padding may provide enough time for the nestlings to escape the nest. Visual mimicry, exemplified by harmless king snakes that resemble venomous coral snakes, is well known to animal behaviorists, but vocal mimicry has remained more mysterious. "This is further evidence of the benefits some vocal mimics gain from their unusual vocal behavior," says University of Cape Town ornithologist Tom Flower, who was not involved in this study. He ultimately would like to see proof that deception actually increases nestling survival. For now, unlike the fabled townspeople, the currawongs have yet to catch on to the thornbills' lies. This article was originally published with the title "From the Pages of " in Scientific American  313, 3, 24 (September 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0915-24 Jason G. Goldman is a science journalist based in Los Angeles. He has written about animal behavior, wildlife biology, conservation, and ecology for , magazine, the , the , the BBC, magazine, and elsewhere. He contributes to 's "60-Second Science" podcast, and is co-editor of (Yale University Press). He enjoys sharing his wildlife knowledge on television and on the radio, and often speaks to the public about wildlife and science communication. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.