Read Our Latest Issue A soaring science activity from Science Buddies Physics Speed Lift Potential energy Kinetic energy Engineering design Here's a challenge: Try throwing a paper airplane by moving your wrist (don't move your elbow or shoulder). It's hard, isn't it? How could you get a paper airplane to fly far if you can use only a short distance to launch it? Try this activity to find out! In order to take off, an airplane has to generate enough lift (upward force due to air pushing on the plane) to overcome its weight (downward force due to gravity). The faster an airplane goes, the more lift it generates. This is why airport runways are usually very long (sometimes longer than a mile): because planes need a lot of space to gain enough speed to take off. They also need a lot of space to land safely and slow down from such high speeds. Aircraft carriers are large ships with runways on them that allow aircraft to take off and land in the open ocean. Although aircraft carriers are huge compared with most other ships, they are very small compared with land-based airports and runways. The largest aircraft carrier is just longer than 1,000 feet, which is still less than a quarter of a mile. Airplanes can't gain enough speed to take off on their own over such a short distance, so they get an extra boost from a type of catapult (not the big wooden kind you might imagine flinging stones at castle walls). This catapult provides extra energy from a source such as compressed air or electromagnets to help the plane gain extra speed. The catapult hooks on to the plane and helps it accelerate over a much shorter distance so that it can get enough speed and lift to take off. You don't need any compressed air or electromagnets to build your own airplane catapult, however. In this project you will build one using a rubber band. It stores potential energy, which gives extra kinetic energy (motion energy) to the paper airplane--even over a short distance. It's much more effective than just using your wrist!   You probably found that it was very difficult to throw your paper airplane very far when using only your wrist. Your wrist has a much smaller range of motion than your entire arm, and it's difficult to get the airplane going fast enough for a long flight. A rubber band, however, can store quite a bit of energy in a relatively small distance when it is stretched. A launcher built with a rubber band can get the paper airplane going fast over a much shorter distance, allowing you to launch it much farther than you can with just your wrist--possibly even farther than you could with your entire arm!  , from Science Buddies  , from Science Buddies  , from Howstuffworks.com  from  , from Science Buddies Ben Finio is a senior staff scientist at Science Buddies and a lecturer at the Cornell University Sibley School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Follow him on Twitter @BenFinio. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.