Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world Researchers modeled noise levels in nearly 500 wilderness and park locations and found that more than half of them were twice as loud as the environment would be without human-generated sounds. This cacophony could inhibit animals' hunting, mating and other survival behaviors. Some caterpillar pests have grown resistant to genetically modified (GM) crops designed to be toxic to them. But researchers have developed a hybrid of GM and nonmodified cotton that keeps one species of caterpillar susceptible to the plant's deadly proteins. Newly discovered weapon remnants suggest humans were using a delicate, skillful stone-sharpening technique called pressure flaking to finely shape points for spears and other hunting tools as early as 77,000 years ago. A study of animal bones collected from the Berelyokh site in the Siberian republic of Sakha indicates that mammoths may have suffered from human diseases, including osteoporosis, a possible factor in their extinction. A lack of minerals in their diet may have made the animals susceptible. Analyses of scat, blood and tissue show that two populations of endangered Bengal tigers in the Himalaya foothills are not breeding enough to maintain genetic diversity. Researchers say that relocating villages and halting mining could encourage more mingling between those groups. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  317, 1, 22 (July 2017) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0717-22 Andrea Marks is a former editorial intern. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.