Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Laser light reveals the structure of the planet's tallest trees California's coastal , , are the tallest trees on earth. But measuring their precise dimensions--which is key to determining how much climate-altering carbon they store as biomass--is fraught with uncertainty. Widely used scaling equations between trunk diameter and volume are based on limited sampling of much smaller trees, given that few people are willing to don a climbing harness and take measurements 30 stories off the ground. Now, for the first time, researchers have surveyed using laser scanning, an automated technique that yields accurate measurements of a tree's structure and volume. Mathias Disney, an environmental scientist at University College London, and his colleagues assessed 145 redwoods for a study published . They fired billions of near-infrared laser pulses at the trees from multiple directions, recording the time it took the pulses to bounce back. This process let them assemble a detailed map of each tree, showing burrs, twigs and other features as small as a few centimeters. "This is giving us a new perspective on the three-dimensional structure of trees," Disney says. The researchers found that coastal redwoods tended to be about 30 percent larger by volume than published scaling relations predicted. The authors suggest this discrepancy might be because some sprout additional trunks as they age, a process called reiteration. Based on their observations, Disney and his colleagues have established new scaling relations between tree diameter and volume for the species. Laser scanning can increase knowledge of old-growth forests that is important in conservation efforts, says Anil Raj Kizha, a forest operations scientist at the University of Maine, who was not involved in the research. "In the coming five to 10 years," he says, "this is going to be more widespread." This article was originally published with the title "Sequoia Secrets" in Scientific American  324, 1, 16 (January 2021) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0121-16b 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.