Read Our Latest Issue Fossils of those avians that gave rise to the modern bird lineage "are relatively rare in the Cretaceous," explains Matthew Lamanna of the Carnegie Museum of Natural History, co-author of a paper detailing the finds, published today in But "when we mapped ecology onto our evolutionary tree, a pattern became apparent that species leading up to modern birds are mostly aquatic," Lamanna notes. Excavators spent years splitting mudstone to find the remains. "[It was] like turning the pages of a book," Lamanna says. They were rewarded, however, with five exquisitely preserved skeletons of the ancient bird. The fossils even reveal impressions of feathers, webbed feet and other rare details, though none of the remains include a skull. During s time, a group of birds called the Enantiornitheans--known as opposite birds because their wing joints are reversed compared to their modern relatives--dominated the skies. But the opposite birds perished along with the dinosaurs 65 million years ago. How s group--the ornithurans--persevered remained to be discovered. "It's hard to answer this question just based on bird fossils," says lead author Hai-lu You of the Chinese Academy of Geological Sciences. "We need more information on the paleoclimate." The scientists also need more of " likely behaved much like its modern relatives, probably eating fish, insects and the occasional plant," says co-author Jerald Harris of Dixie State College of Utah. "[But] we won't have a definitive dietary answer until we find a skull." David Biello is a contributing editor at . January 23, 2003  --  Kate Wong February 14, 2002  --  Kate Wong April 26, 2001  --  Kate Wong March 16, 2006  --  David Biello Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.