Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world The government announced it will formally ban growing genetically modified crops in the country--counter to England's plan to embrace GMOs. The foods have been approved as safe by the European Union. The People's Liberation Army has trained male macaques to search and destroy birds' nests near military airfields in northern China. The operation prevents damage to aircraft, which can suck the feathery creatures into their engines, the government says. Many ornithologists, however, argue that the method will jeopardize the avian species in the long run. Glaciers along Central Asia's largest mountain range, the Tien Shan, have lost 27 percent of their mass and 18 percent of their area in the past 50 years. The meltwater is a major source of freshwater for at least three nearby countries, raising the possibility of future drought. This month the European Space Agency launches a prototype of a space-based detector for gravitational waves, ripples in the curvature of spacetime. Beginning this month, new labeling laws from the Food and Drug Administration require large restaurant chains to list the calorie count in alcoholic drinks. The rules apply only to drinks listed on the menu. Fossil evidence suggests that the arrival of big cats on the continent millions of years ago played a part in the extinction of severalcanine species--the result of competing for the same prey. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  313, 5, 22 (November 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1115-22 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.