Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Books and recommendations from by Julie Anderson, Emm Barnes and Emma Shackleton. University of Chicago Press, 2011 For millennia, artists have chronicled human health and the quest to preserve it. Behold the evolution of medicine through the ages, as encapsulated in this compendium of artifacts, drawings, paintings and biomedical images from the holdings of London's Wellcome Collection. by Lisa Randall. HarperCollins, 2011 "The first time I visited the LHC, I was surprised at the sense of awe it inspired--this in spite of my having visited particle colliders and detectors many times before.... Although the scientist in me recoils at first in thinking of this incredibly precise technological miracle as an art project--even a major one--I couldn't help taking out my camera and snapping away. The complexity, coherence, and magnitude, as well as the crisscrossing lines and colors, are hard to convey in words.... "People from the art world have had similar reactions. When the art collector Francesca von Habsburg toured the site, she took along a professional photographer whose pictures were so beautiful they were published in the magazine .... The actor and science enthusiast Alan Alda, when moderating a panel about the LHC, likened it to one of the wonders of the ancient world.... "I've heard such statements from people in all walks of life. The Internet, fast cars, green energy, and space travel are among the most exciting and active areas of applied research today. But going out and trying to understand the fundamental laws of the universe is in a category by itself that astounds and impresses. Art lovers and scientists alike want to understand the world and decipher its origins. You might debate the nature of humanity's greatest achievement, but I don't think anyone would question that one of the most remarkable things we do is to contemplate and investigate what lies beyond the easily accessible. Humans alone take on this challenge."  by Daniel Yergin. Penguin Press, 2011 by Carol Delaney. Free Press, 2011 by Sandra Aamodt and Sam Wang. Bloomsbury, 2011 by Jim Ottaviani. Illustrated by Leland Myrick. A graphic biography. First Second, 2011 by Andrew Nikiforuk. Greystone Books, 2011 by James D. Stein. Basic Books, 2011 by Samuel Barondes. FT Press, 2011  New addition at the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County. . On view through June 24, 2012, at the American Museum of Natural History in New York City. Kate Wong is a senior editor for evolution and ecology at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.