Read Our Latest Issue Yearly electronics blowout should be heavy on touch screens and wireless communication, along with the occasional robot and ecofriendly solution LAS VEGAS--The annual Consumer Electronics Show (CES) is a maddening array of stimuli--flashy displays, buzzing processors and beeping devices--located in a city known for pretty much all the same hallmarks. From the looks of last night's press preview, the two primary orders of the day are touch screen-enabled software and hardware, as well as wireless transmission of data. On the touch screen end, there was a raft of new smartphones, as well as universal remotes to control various home media, like the . Microsoft Vista-enabled software solutions also made a showing, including one from British outfit Ergo, which unveiled , a visual search engine that culls results from sources like and even and then groups the hits into contextual subsets (a search for African mammals may separate entries on elephants from entries on giraffes). Webpages can then be marked up--provided you have a touch screen-enabled PC, like the --by writing directly on the screen, and then sent to others via e-mail. Wireless solutions were everywhere, transmitting data without cords from digital cameras to laptops or external media players or HDTVs. One device manufacturer partnered with Westinghouse to produce the , which, with its ultra wideband high definition multimedia interface, streams video in from either Blu-Ray Disc or HD-DVD players to LCD TVs. Also on this front, the enables users to play all the music on their PC from anywhere in their house using standard wireless protocol. Interspersed with the media transmission and transmogrification devices was a sea of iPod docking stations, far and away the most ubiquitous type of new tech toy, with varieties for every age group and demographic. Massachusetts-based Cue offers , an iPod dock with a car radio-quality AM / FM tuner. The whole device is controlled by only three-buttons, so it's both elegant and retro (read: meant for an aging baby boomer). For the "I want an iPod nano dock I can put in my fish aquarium"-set, there is the , a waterproof dock that floats. For a little biomimicry, provides a dock that resembles a shiny ladybug. And for stoner college coeds who just discovered Pink Floyd comes the light. Among several advances in robotic automation was the , a GPS-enabled exploratory stingray on wheels that transmits surveillance video accessible from any PC browser via WiFi. Beyond that, in the coming days hopes to bring you some footage of " ," the Carnegie Mellon University-designed fully autonomous vehicle that won last November's race in Victorville, Calif. Giving a nod to environmentally friendly tech, the from Iqua is a solar-powered Bluetooth headset that can supply up to 12 hours of continuous talk time (more than most phones allow for) as long as it is exposed to ambient light. Similarly, the can, if its solar panel is placed in a window, allow users to charge iPods and cell phones without ever drawing power from the grid. Finally, of particular interest to the CES team was the , which the Torrance, Calif.-company is sneak previewing at CES and unveiling at a science teachers' conference in March. The rig has three objective lenses (4x, 10x and 40x magnification) and sports a 3.5-inch (8.9-centimeter) LCD screen with a 4,000x zoom that ensures that next generation's high school students and college freshman will not be closing one eye to spy on a paramecium or their own cheek swabs in biology lab. As overwhelming as they were, the wares on display at this year's CES press preview are just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to new product announcements at the conference. Stay tuned for more--we'll be in Las Vegas covering the CES all week. January 24, 2007  --  Christopher Mims   Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.