Read Our Latest Issue General Motors offers a taste of its Electric Networked Vehicle at the 2011 Consumer Electronics Show The solution to traffic-clogged cities has long been thought to be more mass transit. For the past few years, however, engineers at , one that takes advantage of advances in electric-vehicle technology and wireless connectivity to enable a more personal mode of transportation that is faster and safer than a bicycle yet smaller and more environmentally friendly than an automobile.  GM unveiled the Electric Networked Vehicle (EN-V), the company's vision of sustainable urban mobility, last year at the World Expo in Shanghai. Last week at the , GM was ready to provide a glimpse what these two-wheel, two-person personal transports can do [ ]. In a parking lot outside the Las Vegas Convention Center EN-V designers and engineers demonstrated the vehicles' capacity to communicate wirelessly with one another and drive autonomously or under the control of a driver as well as essentially eliminate one of the most dreaded maneuvers in the urban driver's skill set--parallel parking. The EN-V prototypes come in . The red and black Jiao, Chinese for "pride," was inspired by a Beijing Opera mask, whereas as the gray and green-neon Miao, Chinese for "magic," would look at home in the urban cityscape portrayed in the sequel. Meanwhile, the Xiao, Chinese for "laugh," looks a bit like a .  Larry Greenemeier is the associate editor of technology for , covering a variety of tech-related topics, including biotech, computers, military tech, nanotech and robots. Credit: Nick Higgins Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.