Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue New research into how and why tumors form, grow and spread is producing better screening tests and more effective remedies with fewer side effects For millennia, humans have met their demise through violence, accidents and a fearsome array of infectious diseases. In 1900, the leading causes of death in the United States were pneumonia, influenza and tuberculosis. A century later, they are heart disease and cancer. Antibiotics and other modern medicines have reduced the lethality of the microbial illnesses that killed our ancestors. Still, we all die of something. So we now find lying in wait for us scores of disorders characterized by the uncontrolled growth of cells. More than forty years since 'war' was declared on cancer, malignancy still casts a shadow over humanity: in 2012, were attributable to cancer. The toll will almost certainly rise in the decades ahead, especially as adopt Western diets and lifestyles. This Outlook presents an overview of the current battles against cancer. We examine advances in , that will precisely deliver drugs to tumours and the radical changes that may be needed in as a result. We explain how the produced by cancer research could be until we figure out better ways to manage the information. Clues to potential therapies may lie in an animal that is close to , but prevention seems daunting given how much of the is potentially carcinogenic. And even as scientists begin to solve the great puzzles concerning cancer, are proving tough to crack. To deliver this broad view of cancer widely, this Outlook is being published in both and -- a collaboration that we expect to be the first of many. We are pleased to acknowledge the financial support of Celgene Corporation in producing this Outlook. has sole responsibility for all editorial content in this special report. This article was originally published with the title "Cancer: The March on Malignancy" in Scientific American  311, 1, 103 (July 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0714-S3 Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.