Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue have for millennia been said to trigger mystical experiences. The most rigorous scientific experiment with the hallucinogen, and the first in 40 years, proved capable of producing mystical states in the laboratory safely. Scientists at Johns Hopkins University selected 36 spiritually active volunteers, who might interpret the experiences best, and disqualified potential subjects who had a family or personal risk for psychosis or bipolar disorder. One third of volunteers given psilocybin, the mushroom's active compound, described it as the most spiritually meaningful experience of their lives, and about two thirds rated it in their top five. Some side effects occurred: A third admitted significant fear in the hours following their dose, and some felt momentary paranoia. Two months later 79 percent reported moderately or greatly increased well-being or life satisfaction compared with those given a placebo. Further research could lead to therapies against pain, depression or addiction, experts commented online July 12 in . This article was originally published with the title "Magical Mushroom Tour" in Scientific American  295, 3, 36 (September 2006) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0906-36d Charles Q. Choi is a frequent contributor to . His work has also appeared in and among others. In his spare time, he has traveled to all seven continents. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.