Read Our Latest Issue A trio of studies presents evidence for the more elusive small planets orbiting nearby stars A clone of Earth, or even a rough approximation, has proved a difficult thing for scientists to find. The grew to , but the goal that drives much of the research into extrasolar planets, or exoplanets, is the discovery of a habitable world, and that goal remains unmet. Some rough approximations, however, are starting to come into view.  Based on humankind's admittedly limited experience, habitability seems to mean a small world--a terrestrial planet rather than a gas giant like Jupiter or Saturn--orbiting its star at a comfortable "Goldilocks" distance that allows water to persist in liquid form. It is unfortunate, then, that some of the easiest planets to detect are the so-called hot Jupiters: massive bodies hugging tight to their host stars and therefore subject to extremely high (and probably life-negating) temperatures.  But a trio of papers published or announced this week shows just how far exoplanet searches have come and how such projects are progressing toward finding an Earth-like planet, possibly even a nearby one. In the December 17 issue of  and his colleagues present evidence for a nearby so-called super-Earth--a planet bigger than our own but smaller than Uranus and Neptune, the next largest planets by mass and diameter, respectively, in the solar system. ( is part of Nature Publishing Group.) And on Monday a pair of studies set to be published in the were unveiled, each claiming the discovery of a different super-Earth orbiting nearby sunlike stars.  Earth analogues, and to a lesser extent super-Earths, have been so elusive in part because the two primary modes of exoplanet detection favor larger, hotter planets. Transit searches, which track the periodic dimming of a star as a planet passes in front of it, more easily detect large planets in close orbits that blot out more light when they eclipse their stars. And radial velocity searches, which look for Doppler shifts in a star's light as it wobbles under the influence of an orbiting companion, are more attuned to massive planets that induce greater gravitational wobbles in their host stars.  The planet found by Charbonneau and his colleagues, known as GJ 1214 b, has an estimated mass of 6.55 Earths and a diameter 2.68 times that of Earth. Every 38 hours GJ 1214 b completes an orbit around GJ 1214, a dim, lightweight red star known as an M dwarf that lies just 42 light-years from the sun.  GJ 1214 b was discovered by the MEarth Project, a campaign using eight amateur-size telescopes to monitor nearby M dwarfs for periodic dimming caused by transiting planets. The amount of observed dimming, in conjunction with the known size of the star, allowed Charbonneau's group to estimate GJ 1214 b's diameter. The MEarth team also used radial velocity data from to detect the planet's gravitational pull on its host star, which yielded a mass estimate. After , discovered earlier this year by the space-based , GJ 1214 b is the smallest planet whose diameter and mass are known.  M dwarfs are particularly appealing targets because of their cool temperature. Even a planet like GJ 1214 b, which follows an orbit much tighter than any found in the solar system, might be nearly cold enough for water to condense into liquid form, provided it had an atmosphere similar to Earth's. The newfound planet is "a little bit too hot to have liquid water, but it didn't miss it by much," Charbonneau said in a telecast news conference Monday. "This is probably not what you would call a habitable world," he cautioned, pointing out that such a discovery is likely just a few years away. , and to a lesser extent COROT, is well-primed to find Earth analogues, provided they are relatively common, as astronomers suspect.  The hot little planet may have liquid water anyway, Charbonneau said: its density is consistent with a water-heavy makeup, plus a crushing atmosphere whose pressure would allow water to remain liquid at high temperatures. But , a Massachusetts Institute of Technology astrophysicist who did not participate in the new study, notes that "we don't really know" what GJ 1214 b is made of; a number of ingredient distributions would account for the planet's observed density. "There's no unique combination" that yields a given density, she says. The relative closeness of GJ 1214 b to the solar system should allow more detailed study by large telescopes already in operation. "What we hope to do in the very near future is learn about the atmosphere directly," Charbonneau said.   In , astronomer , and his colleagues found an even less massive super-Earth around 61 Virginis, a star just 28 light-years away that is approximately sunlike in mass, diameter and luminosity. An estimated 5.1 Earth masses, 61 Vir b appears to be accompanied by at least two larger planetary siblings in the 61 Virginis system.   comes from a subset of the group that uncovered the planets around 61 Virginis. The smaller team makes the case for at least one, and possibly three, planets orbiting the sunlike star HD 1461, some 76 light-years distant. The more solid planetary detection is the super-Earth HD 1461 b, with an estimated mass 7.4 times that of Earth.  Both 61 Vir b and HD 1461 b were detected by radial velocity, or stellar wobble, measurements alone, meaning that their diameters remain unknown. Follow-up observations may be able to spot planetary transits, but only if the planets' orbits carry them past their respective stars along our line of sight. In any case, given that 61 Vir b and HD 1461 b orbit sun analogues at roughly one sixth the distance that Mercury circles the sun, both would be scalding bodies inhospitable to life as we know it.  Although habitable worlds remain elusive, astronomers are steadily passing the milestones along the way. "Until now, the planets we've been able to study in detail are the hot Jupiters," Seager says, citing the new announcements as a sign of things to come. "The new year coming up is kind of like a new year for us in exoplanets, because we're shifting from the old stuff--hot Jupiters--to the new stuff, which is super-Earths." John Matson is a former reporter and editor for who has written extensively about astronomy and physics. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.