Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world A Mexico City-based social enterprise is providing computer programming training to teenagers deported from the U.S. The organization, Hola<code/>, is offering five-month software engineering "boot camps" in a bid to give the young deportees employable skills and ultimately boost the nation's technology sector. A first-of-its-kind lawsuit claiming that the federal government's actions caused climate change is moving forward. The U.S. Supreme Court dismissed an attempt by the Trump administration to halt the lawsuit, filed by young plaintiffs in Oregon. Nairobi, a city with some of the world's worst traffic, is planning to implement car-free Wednesdays and Saturdays in two of its most congested areas. Policy makers hope this will encourage public transportation use and reduce air pollution. About 10,000 years ago humans lived in settlements in a part of southern Finland that is now under several meters of lake water, researchers found. A team of archaeologists and marine experts dove deep into the lake to find what are now the earliest known signs of human habitation in the region. People were performing dentistry on horses on the vast grasslands of the Mongolian steppe roughly 3,000 years ago, according to a research team's findings. The study suggests nomads there were some of the first humans to use the animals for wide-scale transport, spurring the early beginnings of globalization. Scientists wrote a letter to the Indian president to voice concerns over alleged political attacks on science. The letter criticized the government's decision to transfer a senior scientist to a less influential post after he complained about moves to privatize parts of the nation's central space agency. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  319, 4, 15 (October 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1018-15 Maya Miller is an editorial intern for . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.