Read Our Latest Issue The placebo effect may have no scientific basis, according to a study published in this week's Doctors have long known that about 35 percent of all patients given a placebo will get better, and they had assumed it was because the patients believed the dummy medication would help them. Many people have taken the idea a step further, believing that we can "think ourselves well" to some extent. To find out, researchers from the University of Copenhagen and the Nordic Cochrane Center, Rigshopitalet, in Denmark looked at the statistical results of 727 trials, focusing on 114 that tested pharmacological, physical and psychological placebos involving 7,500 patients. They reviewed a broad range of different studies, excluding any that had not tested the effectiveness of both a placebo and no treatment at all. Then they examined how test subjects receiving placebos fared in comparison to groups that had received no treatment. It turned out that the results were similar. "We found little evidence in general that placebos had powerful clinical effects," the authors write, suggesting that "outside the setting of clinical trials, there is no justification for the use of placebos." They also found, however, that placebos had possible small benefits for studies with subjective outcomes and the treatment of pain. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.