Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the December 2011 issue of  " ," by Eric J. Nestler, discusses epigenetic changes--alterations to how genes behave that do not affect the information they contain. Is it possible that such changes are at least partially responsible for bacteria becoming resistant to various drugs, given that the changes are passed on to daughter cells? If so, the changes would provide yet another way to overcome resistance to various drugs. Instead of looking for an entirely new antibiotic, it might be simpler to find a way to undo the epigenetic changes and restore the bacterial susceptibility to the drugs we already have.      Whereas David Weinberger's speculations about predictive abilities of big data-crunching models in " " are intriguing, planners and social scientists aren't about to step aside just yet. As an example of "big data," IBM's Watson has impressive computing power when the question is clear, but important societal questions rarely are. For the near future, we don't see large computing power successfully responding to the simple questions facing modern societies with complex answers: For instance, how do you motivate Asian governments to take action on climate change? How do you reduce poverty? How do you get people out of their cars and onto public transit? The challenge to prediction today is successfully integrating philosophy and the social and behavioral sciences with the physical sciences and engineering. Just witness the failure of climate scientists to advance the climate change agenda, resulting, in part, from social, behavioral and political scientists being left out of the conversation. With multidisciplinary cooperation as a starter, "big data" might be better equipped to predict the future.   I would suggest that there is an insurmountable hurdle to physicist Dirk Helbing's work, described by Weinberger, in trying to make a "computing system that would effectively serve as the world's crystal ball": the discrete architecture of the natural world. Helbing's background is apparently the modeling of highway traffic, which has a basic linear architecture. Road traffic acts like a hydraulic problem, where small particles can flow into one another continuously. My background is railroads, which couldn't behave more differently. On almost every level, their options and costs are effectively discrete. Railway costs are highly correlated, irregular, stepwise functions. They are dynamically unstable as they interact. That is, these costs are complexly unique lookup tables, not continuous equations, which means that highway and other linear models cannot be used rigorously (although people do try to use them). So is the mathematical architecture of the world more like a road network or a rail network? If the latter, then it is mathematically impossible to predict the future. It would be a world ruled by discrete events, including black swan events. As a quote attributed to mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot put it, "Even though economics is a very old subject, it has not truly come to grips with the main difficulty, which is the inordinate practical importance of a few extreme events." God does, in fact, play with dice in the natural world.    Charles Q. Choi's reportage of Rouslan Krechetnikov's study on the physics of keeping coffee from spilling, as reported in " " [Advances], is interesting. But Choi should go, at peak dinnertime, to a restaurant known for very good service. Watch the wait staff move quickly across the floor. When they are carrying liquids, the rule is long stride, short stride, long stride, short stride. You can walk briskly and not spill things if you're careful to break up your rhythm as you move. I learned that the first day on the job as a waiter in the 1960s.   I believe a solution for spilling coffee was already discovered 35 years ago on the University of California, Berkeley, campus. At the time, the student union lacked lids for coffee, and inevitably some of the precious brew would slosh out before I reached my 8 a.m. class. Realizing the problem was a buildup of vibrations until a large "beat" frequency caused the liquid to spill, I tried breaking them up by randomly moving the cup side to side and fore and aft as I walked. Eureka! No constant motion, no beat frequency and no coffee spilt.    " ," by Damon Landau and Nathan J. Strange, says that "for a test flight, astronauts steer the vehicle into an orbit that almost always remains above the south pole of the moon." As a retired orbit mechanic, I see this statement as impossible unless there is a Lagrangian point above the lunar south pole. A satellite can remain stationary only over the body's equator.     6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.