Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Acting Editor in Chief Mariette DiChristina explains the September 2009 issue of The editors at always look forward to creating our annual single-topic issues. These special editions give us the opportunity to more fully explore an area that is of deep scientific and public interest and to share that comprehensive package with you. About a year ago, when the editorial board first began discussing possibilities for the issue you now hold in your hands, we decided to harness our ambitions in a different way. Instead of narrowly focusing on one subject, we would think more expansively. We settled on an all-encompassing topic that would provide the intellectual charge we sought but also would be fun. We decided to probe some of the most profound questions that humans ask about our existence, such as, ? What led to the ? We knew we would want to provide in-depth feature articles on key topics in technology and in the physical and life sciences. To round out the issue, we also wanted to take on a few dozen other intellectual puzzles-- --in shorter pieces. We dedicated extra pages to this issue to encompass the span of our questions, but it still was difficult to winnow our wish lists to what could be accommodated in print. Naturally, more short stories and other items of interest are available . For now, for the start of "Origins"--we hope you will find it candy for the curious mind. In an issue focused on beginnings, it also seems appropriate to inaugurate a set of improvements to pages. We've tightened the design of the table of contents, to make it easier to find what you are looking for in each issue. We have organized the popular department by topic; the adjusted layouts are easier to navigate, and the stories will continue to provide the concise analyses of news that you have come to expect. A new columnist's pointed will also sharpen the offerings in the front of the magazine. Lawrence M. Krauss, an astrophysicist, social critic and best-selling author of and other books, brings a scientist's perspective and practice of rational analysis to matters of broad scientific and policy concern. Fittingly, examines the unrealized vision of C. P. Snow, who 50 years ago wrote his famous "Two Cultures" essay. Snow noted the distressing cultural divide between science and the arts and hoped for a future that would bridge the two. We share that hope. Last, moves to a featured position as the back page, where Steve Mirsky's wry prose adds an entertaining punctuation mark to each issue; . As always, we welcome your feedback. Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.