Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Editor in Chief Mariette DiChristina introduces the April 2014 issue of About 13.8 billion years ago, just 400,000 years or so after the big bang, the universe abruptly went dark," writes science journalist Michael D. Lemonick in this issue's cover story, " ." So began the mysterious dark ages of the universe. What happened next has always intrigued me. How did that cosmic fog lift? How did the first stars flare and then coalesce into the galaxies we know today? Astronomers have been gathering clues by looking at some of the oldest objects in the universe. On our own, watery planet, we have suffered from an inability to thoroughly penetrate a different kind of darkness: the world below the waves. It is often now said that we know the bottom of the ocean less well than we do the surfaces of the moon and Mars--which anybody can enjoy via Google maps. Today technology and privately funded ventures are combining to engage in the first systematic exploration of the deepest ocean trenches. In April, as science writer Mark Schrope details in " ," a new submersible will descend to the bottom of the Kermadec Trench, at 10,000 meters, to collect video of the landscape and its strange creatures. It will sample the water and its sediments. Of course, robotic explorers are likely to play an even more prominent role, at least in the next few years. But one thing is clear: we will finally begin to get a truer picture of the dark depths of our own planet. We're also shining a light on aspects of our own inner workings. RNA, less chemically stable than our DNA genetic-information repositories, was routinely overlooked as a mere cellular housekeeper, write staff editors Christine Gorman and Dina Fine Maron in " ," a special report. It turns out, however, that RNA has "an astonishing degree of control over the behavior of DNA and proteins," as they describe--enough to spawn a multibillion-dollar therapeutics stampede in venture capital and research initiatives. As with most explorations by science that push the boundaries of human knowledge, we all stand to benefit. This article was originally published with the title "Out of Darkness" in Scientific American  310, 4, 6 (April 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0414-6 April 1, 2014  --  Michael D. Lemonick April 1, 2014  --  Kate Wong March 18, 2014  --  Christine Gorman and Dina Fine Maron April 1, 2014  --  Christine Gorman April 1, 2014  --  Ferris Jabr April 1, 2014  --  Mark Schrope Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.