Read Our Latest Issue Those who advocate the idea that human language has genetic origins will take heart at a new discovery: University of Oxford researchers have pinpointed a genetic mutation that seems to be responsible for a rare speech and language disorder. Since 1990, scientists have been studying three generations of the "KE" family, many members of which have an inherited language deficit. Those affected have trouble moving their mouth and tongue, identifying the sounds that make up words, and understanding sentences and rules of grammareven though some of them possess normal intelligence. Until recently, no one was able to pin down exactly which gene was at fault. Now Cecilia Lai, Simon Fisher and colleagues, reporting in todays show that a gene on chromosome 7, which they call is mutated in the affected members of the KE family, as well as in an unrelated patient with a similar language deficit. The gene is normal in the rest of the family and in 364 other unrelated, unaffected people. Based on studies of other genes related to the authors suggest that the loss of functioning protein from one copy of this gene might disrupt the proper growth of key speech and language structures in the brain. "This is the first gene, to our knowledge...implicated in such pathways," the authors write, "and it promises to offer insights into the molecular processes mediating this uniquely human trait." In a commentary on the work in the same issue, Steven Pinker, a cognitive scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, says this "smoking gun for a genetic cause of one kind of language disorder" should motivate researchers to search for possible genetic explanations of cognitive deficits in general, as well as potential treatments. From an evolutionary standpoint, he adds, "comparisons of the gene in humans to those in chimpanzees and other primates...could add to our understanding of how human language evolved. JR Minkel was a news reporter for . December 6, 2000  --  Kristin Leutwyler June 4, 2001  --  Harald Franzen July 1, 1999  --  Alden M. Hayashi Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.