Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Books and recommendations from by Christian Ziegler. University of Chicago Press, 2011 Orchids are experts in the art of seduction. They have acquired all manner of adaptations aimed at tricking insects into helping them propagate. Photographer Christian Ziegler captures these sex symbols of the plant world in 150 portraits taken on five continents in environments ranging from tropical cloud forest to semidesert. by Robert P. Crease. W. W. Norton, 2011 Philosopher Robert B. Crease of Stony Brook University charts the evolution of measurement from the regional systems developed to serve local needs to the universal system adopted by nearly every country on earth--a shift "as startling as if the entire world came to speak one language." by Mark Derr. Overlook, 2011 Thousands of years ago, probably somewhere in the ancient Near East, Fido got his start. Mark Derr, author of two previous books on dogs, traces the origin and evolution of man's best friend from its wild wolf ancestors and explores how the bond between humans and dogs was forged. by Richard Dawkins. Free Press, 2011 Evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins teams up with illustrator Dave McKean to create a graphic science book addressing questions ranging from "Who was the first person?" to "What is a rainbow?" For each phenomenon, Dawkins details both the mythologies people initially developed to make sense of it and the actual explanation, as revealed by science. , by Charles Moore, with Cassandra Phillips. Avery, 2011 , by Gernot Wagner. Hill and Wang, 2011 , by Jeffrey Kluger. Riverhead, 2011 , by Joel Brenner. Penguin Press, 2011 , by Mark A. Peterson. Harvard University Press, 2011 , by David Abulafia. Oxford University Press, 2011 , by Adam Frank. Free Press, 2011 , by Dean Falk. University of California Press, 2011 , by Nathan Wolfe. Times Books, 2011 , by Harriet A. Washington. Doubleday, 2011 . Public Affairs, 2011 Kate Wong is a senior editor for evolution and ecology at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.