Read Our Latest Issue How many scientific breakthroughs have been lost because they came from outside the mainstream? This lesson also reverberates throughout the professional life of scientists, including my own. My eventual focus on astrophysics by , who chose to offer an untrained foreigner like myself a five-year fellowship at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton. His generosity paid it forward three decades later--when I hired the brilliant, unrecognized scientist as my postdoctoral fellow. My collaboration with Manasvi over the past four years blossomed into and . A similar but more extreme example involves the career of the mathematician , who produced groundbreaking theorems after being plucked out of obscurity based on the recognition of his raw talent by of Cambridge University. There must be many Ramanujans in developing countries, who lack an opportunity to realize their talents. Avi Loeb is former chair (2011-2020) of the astronomy department at Harvard University, founding director of Harvard's Black Hole Initiative and director of the Institute for Theory and Computation at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. He also chairs the Board on Physics and Astronomy of the National Academies and the advisory board for the Breakthrough Starshot project, and is a member of . Loeb is the author of forthcoming from Houghton Mifflin Harcourt in January 2021. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.