Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue An analysis of old customs makes us privy to a slice of ancient life The last time I visited Boston's Museum of Fine Arts was in 2004 to see a Rembrandt exhibition. But I might have wandered away from the works of the Dutch master in search of an ancient Greek artifact, had I known at the time that the object in question, a wine vessel, was in the museum's collection. According to the 2012 Christmas issue of the BMJ (preacronymically known as the ), the 2,500-year-old cup, created by one of the anonymous artisans who helped to shape Western culture, is adorned with the image of a man wiping his butt. That revelation appears in an article entitled "Toilet Hygiene in the Classical Era," by French anthropologist and forensic medicine researcher Philippe Charlier and his colleagues. Their report examines tidying techniques used way back--and the resultant medical issues. Such a study is in keeping with the 's tradition of offbeat subject matter for its late December issue--as noted in this space five years ago: "Had the Puritans never left Britain for New England, they might later have fled the to found the ." The toilet hygiene piece reminds us that practices considered routine in one place or time may be unknown elsewhere or elsetime. The first known reference to toilet paper in the West does not appear until the 16th century, when satirist Francois Rabelais mentions that it doesn't work particularly well at its assigned task. Of course, the ready availability of paper of any kind is a relatively recent development. And so, the study's authors say, "anal cleaning can be carried out in various ways according to local customs and climate, including with water (using a bidet, for example), leaves, grass, stones, corn cobs, animal furs, sticks, snow, seashells, and, lastly, hands." Sure, aesthetic sensibility insists on hands being the choice of last resort, but reason marks seashells as the choice to pull up the rear. "Squeezably soft" is the last thing to come to mind about, say, razor clams. Charlier et al. cite no less an authority than philosopher Seneca to inform us that "during the Greco-Roman period, a sponge fixed to a stick ( ) was used to clean the buttocks after defecation; the sponge was then replaced in a bucket filled with salt water or vinegar water." Talk about your low-flow toilets. The authors go on to note the use of rounded "fragments of ceramic known as 'pessoi' (meaning pebbles), a term also used to denote an ancient board game." (The relieved man on the Museum of Fine Arts's wine cup is using a singular pessos for his finishing touches.) The ancient Greek game pessoi is not related to the ancient Asian game Go, despite how semantically satisfying it would be if one used stones from Go after one Went. According to the piece, a Greek axiom about frugality cites the use of pessoi and their purpose: "Three stones are enough to wipe." The modern equivalent is probably the purposefully self-contradictory "toilet paper doesn't grow on trees." Some pessoi may have originated as ostraca, pieces of broken ceramic on which the Greeks of old inscribed the names of enemies. The ostraca were used to vote for some pain-in-the-well-you-know to be thrown out of town--hence, "ostracized." The creative employment of ostraca as pessoi allowed for "literally putting faecal matter on the name of hated individuals," Charlier and company suggest. Ostraca have been found bearing the name of Socrates, which is not surprising considering they hemlocked him up and threw away the key. (Technically, he hemlocked himself, but we could spend hours in Socratic debate about who took ultimate responsibility.) Putting shards of a hard substance, however polished, in one's delicate places has some obvious medical risks. "The abrasive characteristics of ceramic," the authors write, "suggest that long term use of pessoi could have resulted in local irritation, skin or mucosal damage, or complications of external haemorrhoids." To quote Shakespeare, "There's a divinity that shapes our ends." Sadly, for millennia the materials used to clean our divinely shaped ends were decidedly rough-hewn. This article was originally published with the title "Getting to the Bottom" in Scientific American  308, 3, 85 (March 2013) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0313-85 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.