Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A researcher documents people's internal monologues On any given day, millions of conversations reverberate through New York City. All these conversations are matched in number and complexity by much more elusive discourses. Even when speaking with others--and especially when alone--we continually talk to ourselves in our heads. Psychologists have attempted to capture what they call self-talk or inner speech in the moment, asking people to stop what they are doing and write down their thoughts at random times. Others have relied on surveys or diaries. Andrew Irving, an anthropologist at the University of Manchester in England, recently recorded the inner dialogues of people walking in New York City. He approached strangers, asked them to wear a microphone headset attached to a digital recorder and speak their thoughts aloud as he followed closely behind with a camera. "I was surprised by how many said 'yes,'" Irving says--about 100 in all. By overlaying the recorded audio onto the videos, he has created portraits of individual consciousnesses on a particular day in New York. Of course, people sometimes speak into the microphone as though trying to entertain someone else. And getting people's inner speech on tape captures only linguistic forms of thought, neglecting the kind of thinking that happens in images and scenes. Still, Irving's videos are permanent records of fleeting thoughts, of dynamic mental processes unfurling in real time. In one video, a young woman named Meredith walks along Prince Street in downtown Manhattan. She briefly wonders if there is a Staples store nearby before reminiscing about a recent visit to her friend Joan, whom, we learn, has cancer. Meredith contemplates her friend's situation for the next two minutes, tearing up at the thought of "New York without Joan." Abruptly, she notices a cafe where she used to sit and people watch, laments how it has changed and resumes her search for a Staples. Meredith's meandering thoughts recall Clarissa Dalloway's roaming mind in Virginia Woolf's novel . Woolf would likely have adored Irving's videos. She wanted to write about "an ordinary mind on an ordinary day." This article was originally published with the title "Streams of Consciousness" in Scientific American  309, 1, 24 (July 2013) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0713-24b Ferris Jabr is a contributing writer for . He has also written for the , the and . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.