Read Our Latest Issue The $1-trillion bill keeps agencies from acting on clean air and water and energy It took 1,603 pages of legalese to keep the U.S. government running for another year. That is the length of , which was approved by the Senate on Saturday to appropriate $1.01 trillion dollars for most federal agencies and departments through September 2015. The bill is on Pres. Obama's desk waiting for his signature. It is not all about dollars. Congress also loaded the bill with special instructions, , which dictate how government funds must be spent. Because the bill was rushed through just before the government ran out of money, and Congressional if the bill did not pass, lawmakers seized the opportunity to tack on controversial riders that might otherwise have been debated. will affect science and environmental policy. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, for example, got $8.1 billion. That's $60 million less than last year and the agency now has to operate at its smallest budget since 1989. But even that money . Although agriculture is a major source of atmospheric methane, Congress forbade the EPA from using its funds to require farmers to report greenhouse gas emissions from "manure management systems." And the agency is no longer permitted to regulate farm ponds and irrigation ditches under the Clean Water Act. Here are a few of the key riders and their effects in different areas: The EPA is not only forbidden from regulating cow manure, it cannot require farmers to obtain permits for gas emissions from , which the agency says is a major methane source. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service cannot take many of the steps required to prevent the extinction of , despite the bird's continued decline. Pres. Obama is not allowed to fulfill his pledge to give , designed to spur other countries to respond to global warming. The Department of Agriculture (USDA) must for companies developing genetically modified organisms, like disease-resistant rice and soybeans. The Export-Import Bank, the U.S.'s official export credit agency, must loan overseas, reversing a previous ban. The Department of Energy cannot develop and enforce new standards for more energy-efficient lightbulbs. The Transportation Department cannot fund most of . The USDA must allow people in a supplemental nutrition program for women, infants and children to use vouchers--previously for fruits and green vegetables-- . Michelle Obama's cannot insist that schools serve whole grains if a school shows that obtaining those grains causes financial hardship. The National Institutes of Health , specifically in neuroscience (via the BRAIN Initiative), Alzheimer's and Ebola. By , the budget bill maintained many agencies at status quo. The NIH kept its current budget and received increases in funds for Alzheimer's and Ebola research. Funding for defense research went up, with the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency receiving a 3.4 percent increase, plus additional funds for fighting Ebola. And space science clearly won the day, with NASA receiving $500 million more than it initially requested. Joshua A. Krisch is a science writer based in New York City. is a senior editor at , covering biology, chemistry, and earth science. He has written and edited about science and health for , , , and . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.