Read Our Latest Issue Washington, D.C. and New York City greet the retiring shuttles New Yorkers who can catch a glimpse of history. The space shuttle will be flown along the Hudson River and around the metropolitan area on its way to John F. Kennedy International Airport in Queens, a stopover on its final journey to the Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum in Manhattan. A modified Boeing 747 is ferrying the shuttle from its former home in Washington, D.C.  Earlier this week more than 10,000 people gathered to see and outside the National Air and Space Museum's Udvar-Hazy Center in Virginia. , whose last year , has moved into a new home at the center. flew 39 missions in 27 years, setting both the record for most missions and longest-serving space shuttle.  , named after the TV series' starship, was the first full-scale prototype of a space shuttle orbiter. Although it never left Earth's atmosphere, served as a test craft, allowing NASA to learn crucial lessons before sending and other shuttles into space. This will be the shuttle's second visit to the city. In 1983 passed over Manhattan on a return trip from the Paris Air Show. Those eager to welcome to New York should be able to view the shuttle from across the metropolitan area. For security reasons, the exact flight plan is not being shared, but which cites a flight itinerary obtained from the Federal Aviation Administration, is scheduled to fly along the Hudson River from the Statue of Liberty north to Tarrytown, N.Y., possibly arcing back around over Manhattan and Long Island before landing at JFK. The schedule suggests the shuttle should be crisscrossing the city between 9:30 and 11:30 A.M. After arriving at JFK, is scheduled to be transferred by barge to its temporary home on the flight deck of the aircraft carrier in June. Future plans call for it to be housed in its own permanent enclosure at the museum.  Daisy Yuhas is a science writer and features editor for SAPIENS. Credit: Nick Higgins April 27, 2012  --  Daisy Yuhas April 12, 2011  --  John Matson November 27, 2009  --  John Matson July 6, 2011  --  Ryan Reid and John Matson November 30, 2011 Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.