Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world Scientists have identified a new hummingbird species in the Ecuadorian Andes. But very few of the birds exist, and the species is considered critically endangered. Its habitat is shrinking as nearby communities burn the native landscape to make way for cattle grazing. Germany has launched the world's first hydrogen powered trains in an effort to reduce its dependence on fossil fuels. The trains, which can reach speeds up to 140 kilometers per hour, have fuel cells that convert hydrogen and oxygen into electricity. Scientists have discovered the world's oldest-known brewery in a cave near Haifa. They found residue from 13,000-year-old wheat and barley-based beer that resembled porridge. The previous earliest known brewery was thought to be 5,000 years old. Rwanda is setting up its first research center for noncommunicable diseases, including diabetes and cancer. Such illnesses currently account for 46 percent of the country's total deaths by all diseases--a 100 percent increase from 2000. The Chinese government is requiring athletes who want to compete for the country in the 2022 Beijing Olympic Games to have their genomes sequenced. Officials say this practice is to screen for medical conditions that could affect the competitors' performance; some scientists have called it discriminatory. Researchers have detected the flesh-eating amoeba in the domestic water supply of Karachi, Pakistan's most populous city. The metropolis of 15 million people has seen an alarming uptick in cases of a fatal type of encephalitis caused by the parasite. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  319, 6, 22 (December 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1218-22a Ankur Paliwal is a science journalist and an Alfred Friendly Press Partners Fellow at . He mostly writes about health and food, and is currently based in New York City. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.