Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the March 2016 issue of Has any scientist measured the rate of the acceleration of the universe's expansion, as discussed in by Adam G. Riess and Mario Livio? And were that acceleration turned back nearly 14 billion years, would it conform with the current models of the big bang? AARON HACKETT  . As I recall, our galaxy is bound to merge with Andromeda. Would this be delayed by an expanding universe? DOV MENKES  . . . . In by Howard Lee, I noticed on the world map showing the "where and when" of the large areas strewn with volcanic vents called large igneous provinces (LIPs) that the locations of those in the Central Atlantic LIP (except for the one on the upper East Coast of North America) appear like they would "fit" together where North America, South America and Africa were located in that period of time when Pangaea was in existence. Is there a relation between where the Central Atlantic provinces are now located and Pangaea? MIKE KECK  . The discovery of the glymphatic system, the brain's pathway for eliminating waste products, as described by Maiken Nedergaard and Steven A. Goldman , has far-reaching implications. I have always slept short and irregular hours, so it is alarming to read that the brain's flushing of waste matter such as beta-amyloid is accomplished mainly during sleep and that short sleepers are at more risk of dementia. Yet in my 80th year I have at least as much mental energy, and almost as much physical, as when I was 20. I wonder whether it could be that the glymphatic flushing occurs most strongly in the first 90 minutes of deep sleep? GUY OTTEWELL  The link between the brain's disposal system and sleep demonstrates sleep's importance once again. It is not surprising that there is a relation between sleep health and neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's because both insomnia in the middle-aged and neurological diseases in the elderly affect a high proportion of the population. Wouldn't it be better, then, to start treating insomnia with the gravity that this condition deserves? I am an insomniac frustrated trying to find the cause and solution for my condition; I recently visited a sleep clinic, and the only diagnosis was: "It is not apnea." JORGE CRUZ  I cannot think of a scarier educational reform than Michael Shermer's suggested cure in [Skeptic] for what he sees as a lack of political diversity in American colleges and universities. Given that so many U.S. institutions are explicitly conservative (the military, most government agencies, many of our religious organizations, a growing portion of the media, much of business and industry, and religious-based colleges and universities), higher education has been a lone habitat for liberal and progressive thinking. JOSEPH ADAM CHEREPON  . Time Wall Street Journal/ . by Maiken Nedergaard and Steven A. Goldman, stated that the brain replaces "half a pound of detritus a month and three pounds" a year. It should have given the figures as half a pound each month and nearly six pounds each year. by Stephen S. Hall, should have said that the oil produced by soybean strains created by the company Calyxt had higher levels of monounsaturated fats than olive and canola oils, not monosaturated fats. Further, it erroneously referred to the removal of developing horns among male Holstein cows. Cows are female by definition, and the practice is performed on male and female Holstein cattle. In addition, a caption in the box "Genetic Modification by Any Other Name" said when a cell repairs DNA cut by the Cas9 enzyme, it adds several base pairs at the site. In fact, it may add or delete base pairs. This article was originally published with the title "Letters" in Scientific American  315, 1, 5-6 (July 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0716-5 March 1, 2016  --  Adam G. Riess and Mario Livio March 1, 2016  --  Howard Lee March 1, 2016  --  Maiken Nedergaard and Steven A. Goldman March 1, 2016  --  Michael Shermer March 1, 2016  --  Stephen S. Hall Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.