Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Climate change, among other factors, led to the rejection of the controversial tar sands pipeline proposal Obama said America is a global leader on taking action on climate change, and approving Keystone XL would have undercut that leadership. Some crude oil needs to be left in the ground to keep the climate from warming further, and rejecting Keystone XL will help meet that goal, he said. Among the reasons for rejecting Keystone XL, Obama said the pipeline would not make a meaningful long-term contribution to the U.S. economy, nor would it increase U.S. energy security or help to lower gas prices, which have already declined dramatically over the last year. . was slated to stretch 1,179 miles from east-central Alberta, Canada, to the Texas Gulf Coast. It would transport 830,000 barrels of crude oil per day from the to refineries near Houston. Proposed in 2008, the 875-mile section between the Canadian border and Steele City, Neb., needed State Department approval because it crossed an international border. that the tar sands oil the pipeline would carry is highly damaging to the climate, emitting about 1.3 billion more tons of greenhouse emissions over the pipeline's 50-year lifespan than if it were carrying conventional crude oil. The production of tar sands oil releases into the atmosphere than the average barrel of crude oil produced elsewhere, according to the State Department. said. "I am pleased that the administration has made good on their promise to take seriously the task of acting on climate by rejecting the construction of the pipeline." to get their crude to refineries on the Gulf Coast and elsewhere. , visiting professor of public policy at Duke University specializing in U.S.-Canada border issues, said that the rejection of Keystone XL will have little effect on the amount of oil flowing between the two countries because energy companies have already compensated by adding new rail capacity for oil shipping. would carry more than 1 million barrels of tar sands oil per day to refineries in New Brunswick, though the company this week that the project has been paired down slightly. Energy East is slated to begin operating in 2018. , which is being designed to carry 1.2 million barrels of crude oil per day from an oil terminal in northern Wisconsin to another terminal near Pontiac, Ill. Construction began in 2014, and the pipeline is expected to be operating at full capacity late this year. that stretches from Pontiac to oil terminals in Cushing, Okla. There, Flanagan links to yet another new Enbridge pipeline expansion, called the Seaway Twin, which last fall from Cushing to refineries in Freeport, Texas. to transport crude from Alberta, and the Canadian government has approved other major Enbridge oil pipeline projects. Those include the , which is slated to transport crude oil from Alberta to a port on Canada's west coast, and the expansion, which would pipe tar sands oil east to Montreal. November 4, 2015  --  David Biello Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.