Read Our Latest Issue Bring Science Home: Liquids and solids Viscosity Pressure  From : Properties of objects and materials Why is it so hard to get out of quicksand? Is it a solid? Is it a liquid? Can it be both? In this activity, you will make a substance that is similar to quicksand--but much more fun. Play around with it and find out how it acts differently from a normal liquid a normal solid.  Other, more familiar substances change states (from solids to liquids to gases) when we change the temperature, such as freezing water into ice or boiling it away into steam. But this simple mixture shows how changes in pressure, instead of temperature, can change the properties of some materials.   Applying pressure to the mixture increases its viscosity (thickness). A quick tap on the surface of Oobleck will make it feel hard, because it forces the cornstarch particles together. But dip your hand slowly into the mix, and see what happens--your fingers slide in as easily as through water. Moving slowly gives the cornstarch particles time to move out of the way.  Oobleck and other pressure-dependent substances (such as Silly Putty and quicksand) are not liquids such as water or oil. They are known as non-Newtonian fluids. This substance's funny name comes from a Dr. Seuss book called . *    1 cup of water *    1 to 2 cups of cornstarch *    Mixing bowl *    Food coloring (optional)   *    Pour one cup of cornstarch into the mixing bowl, and dip your hands into it. It's made up of super-fine particles. *    Now pour the water in, mixing slowly as you go. Keep adding more water until the mixture becomes thick (and hardens when you tap on it). Add more cornstarch if it gets too runny, and more water if it becomes too thick. *    Add a few drops of food coloring if desired. (If you want to turn your Oobleck another hue, it's easier to add the coloring to the water before you mix it with the cornstarch.) *    Oobleck is non-toxic, but please use caution when doing any science activity. Be careful not to get it in your eyes, and wash your hands after handling the Oobleck.   *    Roll up your sleeves and prepare to get messy! Drop your hands quickly into the Oobleck, then slowly lower your hands into it. Notice the difference! *    Hold a handful in your open palm-- *    Try squeezing it in your fist or rolling it between your hands-- *    Move your fingers through the mixture slowly, then try moving them faster. * * If you have a large plastic bin or tub, you can make a big batch of Oobleck. Multiply the quantity of each ingredient by 10 or more and mix it up. Take off your shoes and socks and try standing in the Oobleck! Let you feet sink down and then try wiggling your toes.  What is happening when you squeeze the Oobleck? What is happening when you release the pressure? Does the Oobleck remind you of anything else?  The Oobleck mixture isn't your typical liquid--or solid. The cornstarch-and-water mixture creates a fluid that acts more like quicksand than water: applying force (squeezing or tapping it) causes it to become thicker. If you were trapped in a tub of Oobleck, what would be the best way to escape?     Wash hands with water. Add plenty of extra water to the mixture before pouring it down the drain. Wipe up any dried cornstarch with a dry cloth before cleaning up any remaining residue with a damp sponge.   " " from " " from " " overview from Idaho Public Television's Dialogue for Kids  from the American Chemical Society's Science for Kids  by Jennifer Williams, ages 4-8  By J. Elizabeth Mills, ages 9-12   The Magic of Gravity   *    Coin *    Bottle, jar or canister with a small top opening (larger--but not too much bigger--than the coin) *    3- by-5-inch note card or other sturdy piece of paper *    Scissors *    Tape *    Pen or pencil *    Water (optional) 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.