Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Evidence builds that animals are scarcer in more heavily contaminated areas More than 30 years after the Chernobyl nuclear plant's meltdown, an 18-mile radius around the site remains almost entirely devoid of human activity-- . But scientists disagree over lingering radiation's effects on animal populations in this region, called the Exclusion Zone. A new analysis, based on estimating the actual doses animals receive in various parts of the zone, supports the hypothesis that areas with the most radiation have the fewest mammals. "The effects we saw are consistent with conventional wisdom about radiation," says University of South Carolina biologist Timothy Mousseau, co-author of the new study . "What's surprising is that it took this long to start looking at this in a rigorous, comprehensive way." The paper reanalyzed data collected in 2009. At that time the same researchers used snow tracks to estimate the abundance of 12 mammal species, from mice to horses to wild boars, at 161 sites across 300 square miles in the Exclusion Zone. They found fewer mammals in areas with higher background radiation. Two subsequent studies, however, found no significant correlation between radiation levels and mammal abundance. But Mousseau and his colleagues say all three studies analyzed radiation exposure too simplistically. The previous studies relied solely on measurements of ambient radiation. For their reanalysis, the researchers used their original mammal counts--but they estimated the total radiation doses those animals would likely receive over their lifetimes, combining data about each species (including range size, diet and life span) with radiation levels based on soil samples and calculations about how the animals encounter radioactive molecules. Again, they found that locations calculated as more radioactive had fewer mammals. Many past studies have linked radiation exposure at those estimated levels to deleterious genetic, physiological and reproductive effects, Mousseau says. "This work is very important and is well done," says Carmel Mothersill, a radiobiologist at McMaster University in Ontario, who was not involved in the study. "My own lab has used this approach to reanalyze data from as well as Chernobyl, and it gives a much more meaningful relation between radiation exposure and risk of harm." But according to University of Georgia wildlife ecologist James Beasley, a co-author of past conflicting studies, the paper suffers from "critical flaws"--primarily in how the authors estimated animal abundance. Their original measurement locations, he says, were not spaced appropriately or extensively enough to draw conclusions about the entire area. Karine Beaugelin-Seiller, study lead author and a radioecologist at the Institute for Radiological Protection and Nuclear Safety in France, agrees that uncertainty remains. Yet, she says, the study provides a more accurate way to establish the connection between radiation exposure and effects, ideally guiding future research. This article was originally published with the title "Chernobyl's Legacy" in Scientific American  323, 6, 18-19 (December 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1220-18 Rachel Nuwer is a freelance journalist and author of (Da Capo Press, 2018). She lives in Brooklyn, N.Y. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.