Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue One of the U.S.'s largest infrastructural projects underway is a new bridge slowly rising above the Hudson River near New York City. The design, called a cable-stay, is cheaper and faster to construct than a traditional suspension bridge for medium-length projects (such as those that span rivers). As America's bridges age, cable-stays . As people age, memory can become a problem. A creative way to test for Alzheimer's is now undergoing investigation. The Neurotrack screen to help diagnose the disease before it damages the brain. Although there remains no cure for Alzheimer's, researchers hope that testing potential drugs or therapies prior to mental decline will prove to be more successful than previous attempts at finding the most effective treatment in the battle against the debilitating disease. Ants were long known as the only insects to wage war on other outside their own species. Now after an Australian team of researchers recorded nearly 50 hostile hive takeovers of unrelated colonies. Warriors dive-bombed one another in dramatic airborne raids. The scientists suspect the bees battle to claim territory. Like angry bees, satellites can collide mid-air--a problem exacerbated by the fact that communications companies keep the precise locations of their instruments guarded. Advanced cryptography could soon allow satellite owners to the exact coordinates. Also in February's Advances:  This article was originally published with the title "February 2015 Advances" in Scientific American  312, 2,  (February 2015) February 1, 2015  --  Amy Nordrum February 1, 2015  --  David Godkin February 1, 2015  --  Annie Sneed February 1, 2015  --  Esther Landhuis February 1, 2015  --  Amy Nordrum February 1, 2015 Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.