Read Our Latest Issue Burying greenhouse gas may be the only way to avoid a climate change catastrophe For more than a decade, Norwegian oil company Statoil Hydro has been stripping climate change-causing carbon dioxide (CO ) from natural gas in its field and burying it beneath the seabed rather than venting it into the atmosphere. The company estimates that since 1996 it has stored more than 10 million-plus metric tons of CO some 3,300 feet (1,000 meters) down in the sandstone formation from which it came--and all of it has , which means storage may be the simplest part of the (CCS) challenge. The basics of carbon dioxide storage are simple: the same Utsira sandstone formation that has stored the natural gas for millions of years can serve to trap the CO , explains Olav Kaarstad, CCS adviser at Statoil. An 800-foot (250-meter) thick band of sandstone--porous, crumbly --is covered by relatively impermeable 650-foot (200-meter) thick layer of shale and mudstone (think: hardened clay). "We aren't really much worried about the integrity of the seal and whether the CO will stay down there over many hundreds of years," Kaarstad says. The company monitors its storage through periodic seismic testing, a process that is not unlike a , says hydrologist Sally Benson, director of the global climate and energy project at Stanford University. That monitoring indicates that between 1996 and this past March, the liquid CO has spread to occupy some three square kilometers, just 0.0001 percent of the area available for such storage. "We're not going into a salt cavern, we're not going into an underground river. We're going into microscopic holes," explains geologist Susan Hovorka of the University of Texas at Austin, who has worked on in the U.S. "Add it up and it's a large volume" of storage space. How large? The U.S. Department of Energy (DoE) estimates that the U.S. alone has storage available for 3,911 billion metric tons of CO in the form of geologic reservoirs of permeable sandstones or deep saline aquifers, according to a . These reservoirs are more than enough for the 3.2 billion metric tons of CO emitted every year by the roughly 1,700 large industrial sources in the country. Most of that storage is near where the majority of coal in the U.S. is burned: the Midwest, Southeast and West. "There are at least 100 years of CO sequestration capacity and probably significantly more," Benson says. The storage seems to be long-term as well; the sequestered CO doesn't just sit in the rock waiting for a chance to escape. Over decades it forms carbonate minerals with the surrounding rock, or it that shares the pore space, Hovorka notes. In fact, when she tried to pump CO out of her test site south of Dayton, Tex. using natural gas extraction techniques, the attempts failed completely. According to the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), which issued a in 2005, a properly selected site should securely store at least 99 percent of the sequestered CO for more than 1,000 years. James Dooley, a senior research scientist at Pacific Northwest National Laboratory and an IPCC lead author, considers that to be a reachable goal. "If it took all that energy to shove [the CO ] into that sandstone, it's going to take a lot of energy to get it out," he notes. "Like an oil field, where we get out half or less of the original oil in place, a lot of the CO gets stuck in there. It's immobilized in the rock." Encouraged by the success of the , Statoil recently began another CO injection program at the Snohvit natural gas field in the Barents Sea, despite the requirement that they build a 95-mile (150-kilometer) pipeline on the seabed to pump the CO to where it can be sequestered. And since 2005, oil giant BP and its partners (including Statoil) in the in Algeria  have been stripping the nine billion cubic meters of natural gas produced there annually of the 10 percent carbon dioxide it contains and pumping a million metric tons of liquid CO back into the underlying saline aquifer through three additional wells at a cost of $100 million. BP uses a variety of techniques, including satellite monitoring, to observe the impact of the CO storage (and natural gas removal). Whereas some areas sank by roughly 0.24 inch (six millimeters) as natural gas was extracted, near the CO injection wells the land rose by some 0.39 inch (10 millimeters), according to Gardiner Hill, manager of technology and engineering for CCS at BP's alternative energy arm. "The gas has been down there about 20 million years so we know [the reservoir] has integrity," he says. The DoE's is also working on developing appropriate monitoring, verification and accounting technologies. BP and Statoil are not doing these CCS projects for charity, of course. A Norwegian government tax on carbon of roughly $50 per metric ton inspired the and Snohvit. "It costs a fraction of the tax," Kaarstad says. "We are actually making money out of this." Both Statoil and BP foresee more money-making CO storage opportunities. Hill notes that if CCS is deployed on a very large scale, society will need the expertise of the oil industry--its "100 years of understanding the subsurface," he says. "We would expect the experience we are building through this to position BP to take advantage of any future business." "My one prediction is that this is going to be a very big industry, storing CO underground but transporting it, as well," Kaarstad adds. "It's not going to happen overnight, but it will probably be as big as natural gas after a few decades." David Biello is a contributing editor at . Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.