Read Our Latest Issue Tech Talker: Quick and Dirty Tips to Navigate the Digital World Scientific American Scientific American In last week's episode, I went over over the internet. In the end of the episode, I mentioned that there are always some security concerns when sending personal files over the internet that you don't want made available for the general public. One way to safeguard against this security concern is to implement encryption.  But before we get ahead of ourselves, let's take a quick look into what encryption is and how it works. Imagine you are going to send a postcard in the mail. You go to your nearest mailbox and drop the postcard into the slot. What many of us forget is that anyone who handles the postcard on the way to its destination will be able to read exactly what you wrote. This is similar to what happens when your data is sent over an --anyone who intercepts the message has the ability to read it. This definitely wouldn't be ideal if you were sending something of a personal nature, would it? That's where encryption steps in! Encryption basically scrambles your data, or in this case your postcard, to make it unreadable to anyone else unless they know the special key or password to open it up. Encryption is used all over the internet for things such as online banking, secure , and pretty much any website that requires a password.  > Eric Escobar is a professional computer hacker and host of the podcast on Quick and Dirty Tips. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.