Read Our Latest Issue A space science activity from Science Buddies Mathematics Physics Navigation Programming Space How do scientists and engineers control robots that drive around other planets millions of miles away? It's nowhere near as easy as driving a toy remote-control car here on Earth. In this activity you will experience some of the challenges you face when driving a "robot" that you can't see! The U.S. has landed four robotic rovers on Mars: Sojourner in 1997, Spirit and Opportunity in 2004, and Curiosity in 2012. These rovers were given more and more autonomy, meaning they are able to make some decisions on their own about how to drive around obstacles. They do this by using onboard sensors (such as cameras and lasers) that can detect obstacles and computers to interpret what they see. Scientists on Earth, however, still need to send the rovers commands about where to go. At first you might think this is just like driving a remote-control car, but there's a problem: Mars is far away from Earth. It's so far away that even the speed of light isn't fast enough for commands to get there without a delay. Depending on where the planets are as they orbit the sun it can take anywhere between eight and 20 minutes for a signal to reach Mars from Earth. That means up to 40 minutes round-trip to send a command to the rover and get a response! Can you imagine playing a video game if you had to wait 40 minutes to see what happened every time you pushed a button on the controller? Because of this delay, when scientists are driving the rover they need to upload a series of commands all at once to make sure the rover doesn't crash. This requires carefully planning out a path in advance. In this activity you will work with two volunteers to simulate sending commands between an operator and a rover--and find out some of the challenges and solutions.   You might find this activity surprisingly difficult at first! It might be tempting to cheat and modify your commands halfway through, or the rover might want to open their eyes. You might run into problems, such as the rover's steps being bigger or smaller than yours, or the rover not making exactly 90-degree turns. It's important to "calibrate" the rover's motions so you get the results you expect when you issue commands. The same concept applies to the real Mars rovers: to carefully plan a path, scientists need to know exactly how far they will move or turn when they issue a command.  , from NASA  , from the European Space Agency  , from NASA  from  , from Science Buddies Ben Finio is a senior staff scientist at Science Buddies and a lecturer at the Cornell University Sibley School of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. Follow him on Twitter @BenFinio. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.