Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue One goal laid out in the new policy is the testing of a fission power system on the moon by the mid- to late 2020s Nuclear power will be a big part of the United States' space exploration efforts going forward, a new policy document affirms. on Wednesday (Dec. 16) issued Space Policy Directive-6 (SPD-6), which lays out a national strategy for the responsible and effective use of space nuclear power and propulsion (SNPP) systems. "Space nuclear power and propulsion is a fundamentally enabling technology for American deep-space missions to Mars and beyond," Scott Pace, deputy assistant to the president and executive secretary of the , said in an emailed statement Wednesday. "The United States intends to remain the leader among spacefaring nations, applying nuclear power technology safely, securely and sustainably in space." Nuclear systems have been important parts of the nation's exploration portfolio for decades. For example, many of NASA's highest-profile robotic explorers--including the Voyager 1 and Voyager 2 interstellar probes, New Horizons Pluto spacecraft and Curiosity Mars rover--have derived their power from (RTGs), which convert to electricity the heat generated by the radioactive decay of plutonium-238. More extensive use of SNPP systems could help that portfolio expand considerably in the near future. For instance, NASA and the U.S. Department of Energy are working together on a , which could provide juice for crewed outposts on the moon and Mars. And NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine has hailed nuclear thermal propulsion, which would harness the heat thrown off by fission reactions to accelerate propellants to incredible speeds, as a for the agency's deep-space exploration efforts. SPD-6 firms up and formalizes that commitment to SNPP systems. For example, the document, which you can read , states that the U.S. should develop, by the mid-2020s, fuel production and processing capabilities sufficient to support a variety of nuclear space systems, from RTGs to nuclear thermal and nuclear electric propulsion. Another goal laid out by SPD-6 is the demonstration of a "fission power system on the surface of the moon that is scalable to a power range of 40 kilowatt-electric (kWe) and higher to support a sustained lunar presence and exploration of Mars." This should happen by the mid- to late 2020s if possible, the document states. SPD-6 is the sixth space policy directive signed by President Trump, as its name suggests. SPD-1 officially instructed NASA to return astronauts to the moon to help prepare for crewed Mars missions; SPD-2 eased regulations on the private spaceflight industry; SPD-3 aimed to help with space-traffic management; SPD-4 directed the Department of Defense to establish the ; and SPD-5 laid out a cybersecurity policy for U.S. space systems. As that list indicates, President Trump has been quite active in the space-policy domain. He also resurrected the National Space Council, which had been dormant since the early 1990s. And just last week, he , which aims to bolster national security and American leadership in space, among other goals. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.