Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Books and recommendations from by Philip W. Conkling, Richard Alley, Wallace Broecker and George Denton. MIT Press, 2011 Spanning more than 600,000 square miles, Greenland's ice sheet is the largest outside Antarctica. But it is melting fast, with the thunderous sounds of icebergs calving off glaciers filling the air. This is not the first time Greenland has undergone abrupt climate change. Comparatively balmy temperatures in the 10th century allowed Norse settlers to colonize the area; the ensuing Little Ice Age coincided with their disappearance. In this book, illustrated with dramatic color photographs, four leading climate experts chronicle Greenland's climate history and discuss what the current warming means for this frozen place and for the rest of the world. by John D. Barrow. W. W. Norton, 2011 Universes that spin, ones that occupy black holes, ones that permit time travel--these are but a few of the bizarre types of universes that modern physics tells us exist parallel to our own. John D. Barrow, professor of mathematical sciences and director of a public outreach math program at the University of Cambridge, takes readers on an armchair tour of these exotic corners of the cosmos and explains how they might all be part of a single "multiverse." by David J. Linden. Viking, 2011 Pleasure takes many forms--from runner's high to the rush from winning big at the casino--each of which activates pleasure circuitry in the brain. Neuroscientist David J. Linden of Johns Hopkins University examines the neurobiology of pleasure and explains, among other things, how the brain's reward system can backfire, leading to addiction. by Joel Achenbach. Simon and Schuster, 2011 It is one of the worst ecological disasters in U.S. history: on April 20, 2010, the Deepwater Horizon oil rig exploded, killing 11 workers and unleashing a gusher of crude oil into the Gulf of Mexico. By the time engineers plugged the Macondo well on September 19, nearly five million barrels of crude had fouled the Gulf. Washington Post writer Joel Achenbach looks at what went wrong and how engineers eventually figured out how to kill Macondo.  by Philip Mirowski. Harvard University Press, 2011 by Carl Zimmer. University of Chicago Press, 2011 by Seth Fletcher. Hill and Wang, 2011 by Jim Baggott. Oxford University Press, 2011 ($29.95) The World's Largest Dinosaurs. April 16, 2011-January 2, 2012, at the American Museum of Natural History in New York City. Suited for Space. April 6-September 25 at the Museum of Science and Industry in Chicago. Kate Wong is a senior editor for evolution and ecology at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.