Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue As an editor, I've never been a big fan of turning nouns into verbs when perfectly good options already exist. But I'd be happy to see us use "science" that way. It's a powerful, evidence-based process of conducting experiments, gathering data and performing analysis on the results. It's at once a methodical set of practices and a tool that inspires hope for a brighter future by advancing discovery and innovation. That's why our cover story, " ," has a special resonance for me. It's about world-changing ideas coming out of the labs that are poised to help us lead better, healthier lives. produced the section in collaboration with the World Economic Forum. The Forum annually brings together business and policy leaders--and, increasingly, scientists and their research--to discuss ways we can work together to tackle the world's greatest challenges. The partnership that led to this special report began three years ago. I was invited to serve as vice chair of one of the Forum's past Global Agenda Councils, focused on identifying emerging technologies. Our chair was the irrepressible polymath Bernard S. Meyerson, chief innovation officer of IBM. With the help of knowledgeable council members, we produced terrific lists for two years. After our council term ended, our Forum lead, Rigas Hadzilacos, asked me if might like to continue to help develop the Top 10 Emerging Technologies list. He proposed that we could tap the knowledge of members of the Forum's Expert Network and Global Future Councils; we also planned to reach out to the ever savvy board of advisers and other specialists who keenly observe developing innovations. Not least, Meyerson also smilingly told me he'd enjoy the chance to work for this time around. How could I resist an opportunity like that? I'm grateful to all who generously helped to shape this collaboration and to the editorial team members who have now brought it to you in this edition. Elsewhere in our pages, you'll find lots of other ways science is making a difference: changing everything we thought we knew about a "former" planet (" "); helping us understand how the tragic history of stolen people has forged modern society (" "); illuminating the true population health of American burying beetles (" "); and exploring the implications of possibly using new gene-editing techniques to . Have a question? Let's science that. This article was originally published with the title "Let's Science That" in Scientific American  317, 6, 4 (December 2017) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1217-4 Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.