Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world DNA from the 1,000-year-old tooth of an indigenous Taino woman, excavated on the island of Eleuthera, suggests at least one modern Caribbean population is related to her. The finding contradicts a theory that the Taino went extinct after contact with Europeans. A viral Twitter post led to the identification of an African-American woman among a large group of men in an archival photograph from a 1971 whale biology conference in Virginia. The only person unidentified, she turned out to be Sheila Minor--a biological research technician with a 35-year scientific career. Using satellites, drones and ground surveys, scientists spotted a previously unknown population of 1.5 million Adelie penguins thriving on the Danger Islands near the Antarctic Peninsula. This species has been declining in many other parts of the continent. The world's last male northern white rhino, called "Sudan," died in March at age 45 (the equivalent of about 90 for humans). Only two females of the subspecies, Sudan's daughter and granddaughter, remain. A fisher discovered around 150 stranded whales on a Hamelin Bay beach, prompting a major rescue effort that saved only five. Biologists do not know what causes stranding behavior but think it may happen when the animals are sick, injured or lost. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  318, 6, 21 (June 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0618-21 Yasemin Saplakoglu is a science writer based in New York City. She is a staff writer at Live Science and was an editorial intern at . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.