Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue 50 things to see in the night sky, untold stories of mathematical Americans, and more by Sarah Barker Princeton Architectural Press, 2019 ($16.95) In this stargazer's guide (with a glow-in-the-dark cover), astrophysicist Barker gives tips for finding celestial phenomena with or without a telescope. She shares practical tips and tricks to navigate the boundless sky, such as how to identify the constellation Orion, spot the red supergiant star Betelgeuse and even locate the moon landing site. The amusing illustrations and maps come in handy to identify the right time and place for observing. Although only 50 sights are highlighted, there is much more to explore out there. As Barker writes, "the sky isn't the limit--the sky has no limit." -- by Sam Kean Little, Brown, 2019 ($30) As World War II enveloped Europe and the Pacific, a battle was playing out between a group of Nazi physicists dubbed the Uranium Club and the Alsos Mission, a clandestine faction of the Manhattan Project. Writer Kean breaks down the sabotage eff orts of Alsos members such as baseball-player-turned-spy Moe Berg, as well as others who got drawn in, including Joseph Kennedy, Jr., and Nobel Prize-winning chemist Irene Joliot-Curie. Together they prevented the Nazis from developing nuclear weapons. Kean traces the scientific discoveries that led to the creation of the bomb and includes illustrations that take on challenging concepts. The world might be vastly different had Germany harnessed nuclear weapons first. -- by Richard Panek Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2019 ($28) The reason rain falls down, not up, and why balls inevitably reach the ground: gravity. This most familiar force seems simple--even babies get the concept. Yet gravity is fundamentally a mystery, writer Panek reveals in this beautiful and philosophical investigation of nature's weakest force. He surveys creation myths for a cultural understanding of gravity, interviews physicists about why the multiverse might explain gravity's strangeness and even meditates on the force of gravity pulling the waves off Italy's Amalfi Coast. Readers will not emerge from this book with the answer to the question "What is gravity?"--a so far unanswerable quandary--but they will gain many and varied insights from the asking.-- by David Lindsay Roberts Johns Hopkins University Press, 2019 ($29.95) The U.S. was once a backwater for mathematical research, but over the past 200 years it has become a powerhouse, writes math professor Roberts. He explores this transition through stories of lesser-known thinkers, such as Catharine Beecher, who founded schools for women and wrote arithmetic textbooks, and famous ones such as John Nash. Perhaps most unexpected is a chapter on Abraham Lincoln, who gained math experience surveying land and studying geometry. Roberts calls into question Lincoln's heroic status, describing the surveying's role in forcing Native Americans off their land. Later chapters offer a similar dose of honesty, entwining mathematics with social realities. -- This article was originally published with the title "Recommended" in Scientific American  321, 4, 76 (October 2019) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1019-76 Andrea Gawrylewski is the collections editor at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.