Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Creative ways to learn, take action, and participate in sustainability  Google Earth now lets you tour the oceans. Explore surface and seafloor features, including the depths of the Mariana Trench. You can also learn about ocean programs or trace a whale shark's path.  The U.S. Climate Change Science Program Web site features up-to-date research on climate change carried out by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, NASA and 11 other federal agencies.  Species loss might sound depressing but not on 60-Second Extinction Countdown blog. Suspense over species on the brink is peppered with stories of hard-earned successes.  Does your college make the eco-grade? Find out which schools in the U.S. and Canada earned high marks on the College Sustainability Report Card in areas such as green buildings and student involvement.   Discover what our thirst for oil is doing to us and find hope for alternative sources of energy in this award-winning 2008 documentary.  Explore the oceans with narrator Jim Carrey in this 2009 3-D underwater adventure shown in IMAX theaters.   Green Festival, which calls itself the largest green-living event, is coming to a handful of major cities in 2009, including San Francisco, Washington, D.C., and Chicago. You can sample green products, food and information responsibly: at least 97 percent of all waste from the event is recycled, reused or composted.  View and vote for your favorite posters, logos, product designs, and more for a better planet at the Web site of Design 21: Social Design Network, in partnership with UNESCO.   Wearable Collections says textiles account for nearly 6 percent of New York City's total annual waste. As an alternative, the organization sets up and empties recycling bins in apartment buildings, reselling salvageable clothing, shoes, handbags, linens and towels to raise money for charity. Contact them to find a bin near you or to start a program in your community.  Use iCarpool to share rides with co-workers and community members and keep track of your carbon dioxide emissions savings.  Turn your pink slip green with a job search on AlternativeEnergy.com, powered by . Browse the database for employment opportunities in energy and the environment.  One person's junk is another person's treasure on the Freecycle Network, where members can find used wares nearby that would otherwise be tossed with the trash. Give and receive anything from furniture to bicycles.   Parents: get the kids off the couch. Many of the toys from this online store and blog, designed to spark children's imaginations, are made from eco-friendly materials according to fair trade practices.  Forget poker and trivia. Try Betting on Nature or Bioviva instead. The card and board games from Earth Smart Games make learning about the environment fun and engaging.  The Children's Education Series from independent publisher Nomad Press helps kids explore the world around them as well as far-off places. Learn how to identify animal tracks or to construct a battery.  This article was originally published with the title "Resources" in SA Special Editions 19, 2s, 79 (June 2009) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanearth0609-79 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.