Read Our Latest Issue Light and fluffy foam is actually serious business. To ensure that canned draughts have predictable, lasting heads, for example, Guinness developed the Widget, a plastic ring that releases nitrogen into the beer as it is opened; it won the Queens Award for Technological Advancement in 1991. Coca-Cola, on the other hand, has sought ways to create more fleeting foams from soda fountains. And all the while, physicists have chased after a theory to explain how foam behaves. Now they may have one, reported in this week's issue of by Howard Stone and his colleagues at Harvard University. The real trick in understanding foams was figuring out just how they change over time. Researchers knew that two distinct processes took place. First, the foam coarsensmeaning simply that its bubbles enlargeand second, the liquid in the foam drains away. What they didn't know was how these two events influenced each other. To find out, Stone and company developed computer simulations and then compared them to the actual events in two types of foam. In one concoction, the researchers used CO gas, and in another, C F , which diffuses from bubble to bubble less readily. As expected, they found that drainage in the latter foam occurred 10 times more slowly than in the former because the C F gas eliminated coarsening. But whereas adding more liquid to the C F foam made it drain faster, the same was not true for the CO foam. Turning back to their model, the team concluded that the extra liquid actually inhibited coarsening in the CO foam because it made it harder for gas to diffuse. In the foam with the slower diffusion rate, though, the smaller bubbles continued to drain, thinning the bubble walls and accelerating coarsening and further drainage. In the end, the scientists reconciled the model with the data, thus offering the first demonstration of how coarsening affects drainage. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.