Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Information bits from the news As you watch high jumpers sail over the bar this summer at the London Olympic Games, keep this equation in mind: = 2 . It explains why most of jumpers do the backward flip known as the Fosbury Flop. As University of Cambridge mathematician John Barrow writes in his book (W. W. Norton, 2012), the Fosbury Flop keeps one's center of gravity low to the ground, and the lower one's center of gravity, the less energy is required to successfully jump over the bar. In the above equation, is the speed of the jumper (and thus the energy required), is the acceleration caused by gravity, and is the height of the center of gravity. Surprisingly, it is possible for the high jumper's body to fly over the bar while his or her center of gravity passes below it. Now, you might ask, why do many of the jumpers leap backward? That part is easy: when your back is to the pole, there is less chance that your arms or legs will hit the bar and knock it down.   This article was originally published with the title "Fact Finder: High-Jump Physics" in Scientific American  307, 2, 28 (August 2012) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0812-28b Rose Eveleth is a writer and producer who explores how humans tangle with science and technology. She's the creator and host Flash Forward, a podcast about possible (and not so possible) futures, and has covered everything from fake tumbleweed farms to million dollar baccarat heists. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.