Read Our Latest Issue A mind-blowing activity from Science Buddies Physics Pressure Bernoulli's principle Air flow Did you know that airplanes and sound have something in common? Can you guess what it might be? Air pressure! It is fascinating how air--something that is so fluid and invisible--can power an amazing number of fascinating phenomena. In this activity you will use your own breath to blow a small paper ball into an empty bottle. It sounds simple, but is it? Try it out and see for yourself! Deep space has areas that are entirely empty--void of all matter. Scientists call this absence of matter a vacuum. On Earth a cup or bottle can empty, but it is different than in truly empty space. There is not actually a vacuum inside of these containers, but air. Air is invisible to the human eye but is actually made of tiny particles that move around. When left undisturbed, air (which is a gas) will try to create an equilibrium, meaning it will try to equalize the distribution and movement of its particles. This gets interesting when you create a disturbance, such as the wing of an airplane passing through air or a vibrating drum rhythmically pushing air particles together. In the 18th century the Swiss scientist Daniel Bernoulli noticed that places with fast-moving air had lower air pressure compared with places where the air moves slower. As the air strives to reestablish the equilibrium, air will automatically try to move from the area with higher pressure to the area with lower pressure. This creates the lifting push on the airplane wing, the drumming sound and other more phenomena. Could a difference in air pressure make blowing a paper ball into an "empty" bottle harder than it looks like it should be? Try the activity to find out!   It was probably almost impossible to blow the ball into the bottle without using a tool--but easy to blow it into the tube or roll it into the bottle. Although the bottle and the tube seem empty, both are filled with air. The air in the tube can freely flow out at both ends of the tube, whereas the air in the bottle can only leave through its mouth. When you blow you create a current of air, and the movement of air can take a light ball with it. When you blow toward the tube the air in front of the tube pushes the air that is already in the tube out on the other end. The ball follows the flow of air and enters the tube. When you blow toward the mouth of a bottle it is as if the air you blow and the ball following this flow of air bounce off the air that is already inside the bottle--because that inside air has nowhere to go. The ball does not enter the bottle. You can also use Bernoulli's observation to explain why blowing the ball does not push the ball into the bottle. The air inside the bottle is moving slowly, so it is at a higher pressure compared with the fast-moving air in front of the bottle (the air you just blew). Because air always tries to reach equilibrium the air from the bottle (the high-pressure region) will flow out of the bottle toward the low-pressure region and take the ball with it. When you roll the ball into the bottle air can simultaneously move out of the bottle through the bottle mouth while the ball is rolling in. In order to successfully blow the ball into the bottle, you need to concentrate the air you blow onto the ball--instead of letting the air go around it. A drinking straw can help you do that.  , from Science Buddies Bernoulli's Principle ( ), from NASA  , from  !, from  , from Science Buddies 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.