Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Bioengineers can now cultivate blood vessels and other tissues from scratch With the goal of mimicking the mechanical properties of soft tissue, bioengineers and of the University of Pittsburgh have fashioned an inexpensive polymer, polyester urethane urea, into a biodegradable scaffold. This cylindrical scaffold's strength resembles that of a pulmonary valve because it responds to stress differently depending on the direction in which the stress is applied. A patch of this biomaterial infused with smooth muscle cells ( ) functions as vascular tissue, promoting healing and reducing formation of scar tissue in the hearts of rats recovering from cardiac arrest. Already having reached the phase of clinical trials, the California bioengineering company has patented a method for growing blood vessels from a human patient's own cells. In a feasibility trial undertaken in Argentina, Cytograft implanted its engineered vessels into two dialysis patients. Neither patient encountered problems with the implants for at least nine months. One barrier to progress in tissue engineering results from the inability of thick tissue such as muscle, once implanted in a patient, to receive sufficient penetration of new blood vessels from the body's own network to keep the tissue alive. To address that problem, a multi-institution team spearheaded by of the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa has created small pieces of muscle capable of generating its own blood vessels. The researchers combined on a plastic biodegradable scaffold three types of cells: myoblasts that become muscle fibers, endothelial cells that form into vessel tubes, and fibroblasts that are the precursors to the smooth muscle cells that stabilize the cell walls. The endothelial cells became vessels, recruited fibroblasts and caused them to differentiate into smooth muscle cells. Once implanted in a rat, less than half the vessels became perfused with blood. But twice as many cells survived when implanted with the three cell types than implants made up of myoblasts and fibroblasts unaccompanied by the vessel-producing endothelial cells. The technique might eventually help address the persistent challenge of supplying engineered cells with oxygen and nutrients and allowing them to remove wastes. This article was originally published with the title "Growing Replacement Parts" in Scientific American  295, 6, 56 (December 2006) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1206-56 Gary Stix is a senior editor at . He writes the blog Talking Back at . Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.