Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A metallic binding partner amplifies the signal for the smelly molecules Gas leaks, garlic breath, skunks in the neighborhood--ah, the scent of thiols. The human nose is particularly sensitive to these sulfur-containing compounds, which is no surprise given that they are often associated with things to avoid. But how exactly are our nostrils (and those of other mammals) so adept at sniffing out thiols when other odors, such as bleach or vinegar, require higher thresholds of molecules in the air for us to detect them? The hypersensitivity comes down to the metal copper, according to a team of chemists from the U.S. and China. As they reported this fall in the , the researchers discovered that the same receptors in the nose that pick up these unpleasant-smelling molecules also bind with particles of copper that reside in nasal mucus. The metallic partner amplifies a thiol's intensity by up to 1,000 times. And in experiments in which the scientists created thiol receptors that could not bind with copper, sensitivity to the odorant all but disappeared. Evolutionarily, it pays to have a nose that can pick up the minutest presence of thiols, says study co-author Eric Block, a chemist at the University at Albany, State University of New York. The sulfur compounds are released by rotting food, for instance, and some predators give off olfactory cues to their presence in this form. This is the first time a metal has been implicated in smell, and the study will likely encourage other scientists seeking to better understand olfaction to look for metallic sidekicks, says Robert Crabtree, a chemist at Yale University. Crabtree first speculated about copper's role in thiol olfaction in 1977. This article was originally published with the title "P.U. to Cu" in Scientific American  315, 6, 27 (December 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1216-27 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.