Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Science in meter and verse What we all learned in high school about lichen--that it's the synergistic collaboration of a fungus and algae or cyanobacteria--is simplified in many ways. For one thing, the original organisms are changed utterly in the compact. They can't return to what they were. For another, according to Anne Pringle, one of the leading contemporary mycologists (with whom I had the lucky opportunity to collaborate), it may be that lichen do not, given sufficient nutrients, age. Anne says that our sense of the inevitability of death may be determined by our mammalian orientation. Perhaps some forms of life are immortal. The thought of two things that come together and alter each other collaboratively--two things becoming one thing that does not age--roused me toward considering lichen a kind of model and metaphor for the intricacies of intimacy.-- This article was originally published with the title "Forest" in Scientific American  322, 4, 24 (April 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0420-24 Forrest Gander is a writer and translator whose book was awarded the 2019 Pulitzer Prize for Poetry. His work is often linked to ecopoetics and ecology. This poem is from due out in early 2021 from New Directions. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.