Read Our Latest Issue Tessa Hill of the University of California, Davis, and her colleagues studied the amount of tar in samples taken from the seafloor of the Santa Barbara channel off the California coast. Because the oil and gas escape at the same time, measuring tar levels in such samples provides a good estimate of how much methane was released. Digging into the sediment to a time corresponding to the last 32,000 years, the scientists found that tar levels peaked at the same time as global temperatures: roughly 16,000 to 14,000 years ago and 11,000 to 10,000 years ago. "These findings indicate that petroleum seeps are 'activated' during time periods of warming, and increase their seepage of methane and oil," Hill says. Currently, such seeps worldwide account for the release of 30 teragrams (roughly 33 million tons) of methane every year, or roughly 15 percent of the natural sources of greenhouse gas. But tar levels during warming periods were as much as three times higher than at present, meaning methane releases could potentially triple. Because methane is a potent heat-trapping gas, this increasing seepage could result in even greater warming--another positive feedback loop not unlike the loss of albedo (reflectivity) at the earth's poles as their snow cover melts. Hill and her team suspect that the effect has to do with melting methane hydrates--ice lattices that imprison the gas--that ultimately release the hydrocarbons trapped within and beneath them. The hydrates are stable at lower temperatures and lower pressures as well as at moderate temperatures and higher pressures, Hill explains, but they may not remain stable as the ocean continues to warm. The paper presenting the finding is published online this week in David Biello is a contributing editor at . December 20, 1999  --  Sarah Simpson February 1, 2000  --  Sarah Simpson December 12, 2001  --  Kate Wong Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.