Read Our Latest Issue Low-cost spacecraft called CubeSats are helping bring open-source, DIY culture to spaceflight Developing, testing, launching and operating a space science mission typically costs hundreds of millions to billions of dollars, but a new breed of satellites lowers the price tag to just $100,000 or so. These cubic, one-liter, one-kilogram satellites, called , are designed to be launched in batches and can piggyback on other space missions, thus dramatically reducing launch costs. CubeSats originated in a set of technical specifications proposed as a standard in 2000 by aerospace engineer Bob Twiggs, formerly of Stanford University's Space and Systems Development Laboratory, and Jordi Puig-Suari of California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo. The two engineers wanted to make space science affordable for most science laboratories and even for college and high school projects. CubeSats have been embraced as an educational tool, because a team of students can design and build one in just two years, and students can get a holistic feeling of what space science is about. The concept has spread--even and the have joined the club--and dozens of teams have started CubeSat projects. At least two dozen have already completed their missions successfully. Members of the CubeSat community build on each other's experience, sharing design tips. As Twiggs and Alex Soojung-Kim Pang wrote in " ," their February 2011 article, "When developers find something that works--one model of ham radio that works in space longer than another, for example--they share their findings with other CubeSat designers." Meanwhile, several companies have started selling off-the-shelf , such as flight electronics, transceivers, solar panels and structural elements. Teams of scientists and engineers can now focus on designing science instruments that are particular to their own CubeSats, rather than having to design entire spacecraft from scratch. Davide Castelvecchi is a senior reporter at in London covering physics, astronomy, mathematics and computer science. February 9, 2011  --  Davide Castelvecchi February 1, 2011  --  Alex Soojung-Kim Pang and Bob Twiggs Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.