Read Our Latest Issue Ocean acidification is taking a toll on tiny shell-building animals The shells of tiny ocean animals known as foraminifera--specifically --are shrinking as a result of the slowly acidifying waters of the Southern Ocean near Antarctica. The reason behind the rising acidity: Higher carbon dioxide (CO ) levels in the atmosphere, making these shells more proof that .  Marine scientist Andrew Moy at the (ACE) in Hobart, Tasmania, and his Australian colleagues this week that they made this finding after comparing shells in ocean cores collected along the South Tasman Rise in 1995 with samples from traps collected between 1997 and 2004. The cores provide records that stretch back 50,000 years.  "We knew there were changes in carbonate chemistry of the surface ocean associated with the large-scale glacial-interglacial cycles in CO [levels], and that these past changes were of similar magnitude to the anthropogenic changes we are seeing now," says study co-author William Howard, a marine geologist at ACE. "The works well [to study this issue] as it is a region where anthropogenic CO uptake, and thus acidification, has progressed more than in other regions. Other variables, such as temperature, have changed, but not as much."  The researchers found that modern could not build shells as large as the ones their ancestors formed as recently as century ago. In fact, modern shells were 35 percent smaller than in the relatively recent past--an average of 17.4 micrograms compared with 26.8 micrograms before . (One microgram is one millionth of a gram; there are 28.3 grams in an ounce.)  "We don't yet know what impact this will have on the organisms' health or survival," Howard says, but one thing seems clear: the tiny animals won't be storing as much CO in their . "If the shell-making is reduced, the storage of carbon in the ocean might be, as well."  That's bad news for the climate, because the ocean is responsible for that humans load into the air through fossil fuel burning and other activities--and it is the action of foraminifera and other tiny shell-building animals, along with plants like algae that lock it away safely for millennia.  It will be harder to get such a clear sign in a shell from other ocean regions--as variables like temperature and the amount of minerals available can significantly change the chemistry of a given ocean region. As Howard noted, the Southern Ocean has absorbed lots of manmade CO while temperatures and nutrients have not changed as much, making it more ideal for studying ocean acidification than other areas. Scientists examining foraminifera in the Arabian Sea, however, have found similar results, and Howard speculates the situation may be similar in the region, because it also absorbs a significant chunk of manmade CO .  Howard says that CO emissions must be cut or permanently in some fashion to halt this gradual acidification of the world's oceans. In the meantime, he adds, it's likely that many of the other as . David Biello is a contributing editor at . October 22, 2007  --  David Biello January 1, 2009  --  David Biello February 1, 2009  --  Charles Q. Choi September 1, 2008  --  Peter G. Brewer and James Barry July 28, 2008  --  David Biello Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.