Read Our Latest Issue LifeStraw makes previously contaminated water drinkable by removing bacteria and viruses Sometimes, it's the simplest technologies that have the greatest potential impact on people's lives. Take the Vestergaard Frandsen Group's mobile personal filtration system, otherwise known as LifeStraw. It is a powder-blue plastic tube--much thicker than an ordinary straw--containing filters that make teeming with , and diarrhea-causing microorganisms drinkable. The filters, made up of a halogenated resin, kill nearly 100 percent of and nearly 99 percent of the that pass through LifeStraw. A University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill evaluation tested the device's performance in water containing B and bacteria and the MS2 coliphage virus as well as iodine and silver. The results indicated that LifeStraw filtered out all contaminants to levels where they don't pose a health risk to someone drinking the water. But the device does not filter heavy metals such as iron or fluoride nor does it remove parasites like , although the Switzerland-based company's CEO, Mikkel Vestergaard Frandsen, says there is a version of LifeStraw available to relief groups in Bangladesh and India that can filter . At less than 10 inches (25 centimeters) long, the device can filter up to 185 gallons (700 liters) of water, estimated to be about a year's supply for one person. The device is no longer usable when its filters become too clogged to pass water through, typically after a year of hard use. The success of the personal filtration system led Vestergaard Frandsen to introduce earlier this month its device, an instant microbiological purifier that provides about 2.6 gallons (10 liters) of safe drinking water in an hour and about 4,000 gallons (15,000 liters) over its life span for a family of six. LifeStraw Family is designed to sieve dirt, parasites, bacteria and viruses, and will be available starting in May. The next step is promoting LifeStraw technology so that nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and aid groups will buy and distribute them. This is no small task, given that the need for clean water is not promoted as heavily as AIDS prevention or literacy training in some developing countries, Frandsen says, adding, "No one is stepping forward to be the rock star of diarrhea [eradication]." But LifeStraw was recognized by Saatchi & Saatchi's public relations arm as the top "world-changing idea" in a recent competition of technologies impacting medicine, education and aid work. Vestergaard Frandsen Group received $50,000 from Saatchi, plus another $50,000 worth of the PR firm's marketing services. Saatchi, which is owned by France's Publicis Groupe, SA, chose LifeStraw over a field of competitors that included a to improve the distribution of IV fluids, a that can be folded down for easier storage when not in use on bicycles or wheelchairs, an designed for children in developing countries, a that uses special optics and software to project a hologramlike image of patient anatomy for cancer treatment, an for fabricating tissue scaffolds on which cells can be grown, a for bypassing a diseased or damaged eye and sending signals directly to the brain, to help educate illiterate adults on health issues, a that provides telecommunications coverage to poor rural populations in developing countries, and a designed to help paralyzed people communicate via neural signals. Larry Greenemeier is the associate editor of technology for , covering a variety of tech-related topics, including biotech, computers, military tech, nanotech and robots. Credit: Nick Higgins Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.