Read Our Latest Issue The online game poses protein-folding puzzles, and participants provided insights recently that solved the structure of an enzyme involved in reproduction of HIV When video gamers armed with the world's most powerful supercomputers take on science and its most vexing riddles, who wins? Sometimes, it's the gamers. Humans when complex problems require intuition and leaps of insight rather than brute calculation. Savvy programmers and researchers at the University of Washington have tapped into this human "supercomputer" with Foldit, an online game that poses complex puzzles about how proteins fold, one of the hardest and most expensive problems in biology today. "Foldit attempts to predict the structure of a protein by taking advantage of humans' puzzle-solving intuitions and having people play competitively to fold the best proteins," "Since proteins are part of so many diseases, they can also be part of the cure. Players can design brand new proteins that could help prevent or treat important diseases." They've been on a tear ever since. With four publications to their name, and a host of left to solve from deadly diseases to biofuels, Foldit has proven that the concept works. Their latest solution has resolved a problem stumping scientists for a decade. Publishing in the journal on September 18 (the scientists and gamers are co-authors), researchers show how gamers provided the crucial insights to solve the structure of a protein-sniping  enzyme critical for reproduction of the AIDS virus. With help from game-players' strategies, researchers revealed the enzymes' structure within three weeks and identified targets for drugs to neutralize it. Want to discover the next cure? You can sign on to Foldit, and use your 3-D spatial abilities to manipulate  amino acid chains starting simple with "One Small Clash," and work your way up to "Rubber Band Reversal." UW researchers are constantly tweaking the game design and analyzing players' strategies to come up with new answers. Game on. May 5, 2011 October 14, 2008  --  Jeffrey M. Perkel December 1, 2010  --  THE EDITORS, John Pavlus, Tom Vanderbilt, Elizabeth Svoboda, Melinda Wenner Moyer and Matthew L. Wald August 25, 2010 Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.