Read Our Latest Issue A 2003 50 finalist researches tools to help mend the ocean's broken ecosystem Scientific American     His work and analyzing the world's collapsing fisheries. In the 1990s he and a handful of other researchers created , a searchable online database that now has information on more than 30,000 species. In the 2003 book he co-authored, , argued that entire marine ecosystems in the North Atlantic had been altered nearly beyond recognition.   Pauly credits the 50 award for giving his career a boost by putting his work on the radar for other awards and recognition. And 2003 also marked his promotion to director of the Fisheries Center at the University of British Columbia (U.B.C.).  Today, the free service FishBase gets more than 30 million hits a month, Pauly notes. Like some of the fish it tracks, however, it's struggling. "It's almost like the air--everybody uses it, breathes it, and no one wants to pay for it," he says.  Pauly has also been working with , a free ecosystem modeling software which was originally created by scientists at the National Oceanic & Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) but later developed by U.B.C.'s Fisheries Center. The program has more than 6,000 registered users worldwide and was named by NOAA in 2007 as one of the " " of the past 200 years.   Pauly recently won the from the International Ecology Institute in Germany, which comes with a book deal. His upcoming book, which he calls , will look at how ocean temperatures (which also determine the amount of dissolved oxygen in the water) affect marine life. "I'm developing a physiological theory of growth and oxygen requirement," he tells from Germany where he is on sabbatical to work on the book. "If it's well-understood how fish require oxygen to grow, then we can understand how to deal with ."  Although fisheries research and interest has picked up pace in the past several years, thanks in part to Pauly's research and tools, there is still much more to be done before marine ecosystems are back in balance. "The crisis of the fisheries is similar to our economy," Pauly says. "This is not one fishery failing, but the whole system." 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.