Read Our Latest Issue A spectacular activity from Science Buddies Physics Energy Potential energy Conservation of energy If you enjoy chain reactions and spectacular sights, this activity is for you! Can you imagine how weaving rather unspectacular tongue depressors (or popsicle sticks or craft sticks) could set off a chain reaction of sticks flying in the air? Try it out and see for yourself! Energy is never created; it always gets transferred from one kind to another. This activity is a great example of this key physics principle! If you have stretched a rubber band, you have felt how it wants to come back to its original length. Scientists say that a stretched rubber band is loaded with elastic potential energy. In a similar way a wooden tongue-depressor stick (like the kind used at the doctor's office) stores elastic potential energy when you bend it (though not if you break it). When you allow it to go back to its flat state it releases this energy. If a bent depressor stick straightens up near a hard floor, the stick might push itself off of the floor and fly into the air. The elastic potential energy that was stored in the stick is transformed into movement, called kinetic energy. As it flies up it gains height above the floor, which translates into gravitational potential energy, or the energy due to the fact that it can fall back down. Eventually the stick lays flat on the ground. The energy once stored in the stick has ultimately been transformed into heat and sound--other forms of energy. When one tongue depressor stick releases its stored energy nothing too spectacular happens, but what will happen when a chain of sticks release their energy?   You probably saw the tongue depressor sticks jump up in the air as soon as you released the last one--and maybe even before you planned to let them go. You might have noticed that you had to bend the depressors in order to make them fit into the chain. With each bend you added energy to the system. Did you feel how the chain was under tension and how you had to hold the last couple of depressors to keep them in place? When you let it go all this tension is released in a chain reaction. It starts with the last depressors you added straightening. This releases the next depressors in the chain and so on. Soon all the depressor sticks fly in the air, releasing the energy stored in them--and you have a whirlwind of sticks flying around! If you assembled your chain and left it out for a day or so, you might have noticed your depressors did not jump as high when you released the chain. Over time the depressors yield under the tension and become permanently bent. Part of the energy goes into bending the material (usually wood). If you tried to release the chain on carpet or any other soft ground, you might also have noticed the depressors did not jump as high. The depressors cannot bounce off the soft ground as easily as they can off of hard flooring because the softer ground absorbs part of their energy. Maybe you noticed it is harder to weave shorter or more rigid popsicle sticks together. These sticks do not bend as easily; instead they tend to break. They are not as well suited to store elastic potential energy  , from Science Buddies  , from Science Buddies  , from  , from NASA  , from Science Buddies 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.