Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Understanding hydractinia's rare ability could provide insights into human reproductive disorders A hairlike, translucent creature that builds colonies on hermit crab shells is strange enough in appearance and living arrangements, but hydractinia's oddities do not stop there. Scientists have now pinpointed a key gene--one also found in humans--that triggers this ocean floor dweller's rare ability to make an unlimited supply of sperm and eggs. It is the first time a gene has been confirmed to solely activate an organism's germ cell production, the researchers say. Biologist Timothy DuBuc's laboratory at Swarthmore College is one of a handful studying hydractinia, which has multiple genes in common with humans. DuBuc and his collaborators tested new ways to snip a gene called from the embryonic animal's DNA and manipulate its activity in particular cells, as reported in February in . Hydractinia's translucent body let the researchers easily observe the effect of removing the gene: once mature, the animal did not produce eggs and sperm. The team also confirmed that the gene's activation in adult hydractinia stem cells turns them into germ cells (precursors of sperm and eggs) in an endlessly repeating cycle. Cassandra Extavour, a developmental biologist at Harvard University, who was not involved in the research, calls the study's technical advances a "heroic feat." She says the work introduces multiple ways to interfere with hydractinia gene function, as well as the most robust gene-editing protocol to date for cnidarians--hydractinia and their relatives, including jellyfish and anemones. In other animals scientists have investigated, triggers germ cells only during embryonic development--and the gene is involved in myriad other developmental processes, too. In humans, sparks a set number of germ cells just once during development, allowing sperm and egg production. Losing these germ cells results in sterility, and disruption of has been implicated in maladies such as testicular and ovarian cancer. Watching the gene in action could help researchers better understand and treat human reproductive conditions, according to the study authors. "For those of us interested in finding the core program that makes a germ cell," DuBuc says, "this could be the animal to do it." This article was originally published with the title "Perpetual Fertility" in Scientific American  323, 1, 15 (July 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0720-15 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.