Read Our Latest Issue And why security experts warn that this is a terrible idea Yesterday, FBI Director that the federal government was increasingly concerned about the widespread use of data encryption in consumer technology, implying--although not explicitly demanding--that tech companies give law enforcement easier access to cryptographically scrambled customer data. Comey's testimony came one day after some of the world's top cybersecurity experts and computer scientists issued a report arguing that the government's call for special access to encrypted information is technically unfeasible and unworkably vague. Law enforcement officials need to get specific about what they want, the report's authors argued, instead of simply waving their hands and hoping for a technological unicorn that gives them on-demand access to personal information while also protecting user privacy and securing data. And this is where the debate gets complicated. Here's what each side wants and what might happen next: Comey called for a "front-door" approach to customer data access in an but he was unclear about how this might work outside of a nebulous call for tech companies to build "intercept solutions" into their products. National Security Agency (NSA) Director Michael Rogers proposed when he suggested that technology companies be required to create a digital key that could open any smartphone or other locked device, but dividing that key into pieces so it could not be used unilaterally. The Center for Democracy & Technology the split-key proposal as impractical. In his written statement before the Senate Judiciary Committee, Comey was careful to avoid asking companies to allow surreptitious "backdoor" access to customer data and communications. Documents leaked by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden in 2013 indicated that his former agency had done this, for example, by deliberately issued by the National Institute of Standards and Technology. The backlash against the government's alleged tampering with encryption standards and government demands for customer data has created a growing rift between Silicon Valley companies and Washington, D.C. Federal law enforcement officials are concerned that criminals and terrorists will go "dark" by hiding their communications in encrypted e-mails and smartphones. Newer versions of the Apple iOS and Google Android mobile operating systems have emphasized encryption, to the point where company executives have said they would be unable to unlock customer data for law enforcement . "With sophisticated encryption, there might be no solution [for law enforcement], leaving the government at a dead end--all in the name of privacy and network security," Comey said in October. Others in law enforcement have taken even more extreme positions. "Apple will become the phone of choice for the pedophile," John Escalante, chief of detectives for the Chicago Police Department, told in September. New York City District Attorney (NYCDA) Cyrus Vance, who , was more specific in his objection to device encryption. In his written testimony, he stated that asking his office to investigate the more than 100,000 criminal cases they handle each year without smartphone data is to "fight crime with one hand tied behind our backs." Following the hearing, reported that the NYCDA's office has since September encountered 74 iPhones whose full-disk encryption locked out a law enforcement investigation. Vance later singled out Apple during his testimony for having a double standard with regard to its encryption policy. The company allows its customers to have sole possession of the decryption key for gadgets running iOS 8. Meanwhile, Apple does have the ability to decrypt customer data stored in the company's iCloud storage service if ordered to do so. Security experts have criticized law enforcement officials for overstating the need for access. "It's all bluster," security expert wrote on his blog in October. Schneier, one of 15 co-authors of the new report by Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL), added, "Of the 3,576 major offenses for which for communications interception in 2013, exactly one involved kidnapping. And, more importantly, there's no evidence that encryption hampers criminal investigations in any serious way. In 2013 encryption nine times, up from four in 2012--and the investigations proceeded in some other way." CSAIL issued its 34-page report yesterday-- . It highlights several reasons why special access would create more problems than it would solve. The security researchers interpret Comey's comments to mean tech companies should create a cryptographic key escrow--in other words, a stored digital skeleton key--that law enforcement could use to unlock encrypted information for use in criminal or terrorism investigations. But any cryptographic key created for law enforcement would become a major target for hackers, would be difficult to secure and would discourage newer security practices such as "forward secrecy," in which decryption keys are deleted immediately after use and new keys are created for each subsequent transaction. A small but growing number of sites--including Google, Twitter, the Wikimedia Foundation and Facebook--have over the past few years to secure transactions and data. The authors of the report argue that any effort to create front doors for law enforcement would also make software and devices much more complex, difficult to secure and expensive for tech companies to maintain. Not good. the government reported successful hacks into unclassified White House, State and Defense department e-mail systems. The security researchers, led by Daniel Weitzner, director of M.I.T.'s and a former deputy chief technology officer at the White House, specifically cite the recent hack of the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to illustrate the harm that can arise when many organizations entrust private information to a single institution for safekeeping. In the case of OPM, numerous federal agencies lost sensitive data because the office had insecure infrastructure. The current debate must seem like deja vu for many of the report's authors, many of whom in 1997 opposed a Clinton administration proposal that sought to require information and communication services to engineer their products to guarantee law enforcement access to all data. The White House ultimately abandoned its push to have tech companies install what came to be known as the . The plan behind Clipper was to have all encryption systems retain a copy of keys necessary to decrypt information entrusted to a third party who would turn over the keys to law enforcement on proper legal authorization. The researchers at the time determined it was not possible to create the technology that Clipper proposed--a master key the government could use to access large numbers of encrypted communications. Nor was there any consensus over who would serve as the trusted third-party that would hand over the master key when the government secured a court order to use it. The FBI's Comey insisted Wednesday he was not asking to expand the government's surveillance authority; rather, his goal was to ensure that law enforcement can continue to gather electronic information and evidence from emerging technologies when needed. The security researchers say Comey and his colleagues should be as specific as possible about what they need and then engage cybersecurity experts and lawmakers to come up with an approach that takes into account both data security and user privacy. Now that both sides have spoken publicly, we will probably see some direct dialogue between them. Larry Greenemeier is the associate editor of technology for , covering a variety of tech-related topics, including biotech, computers, military tech, nanotech and robots. Credit: Nick Higgins February 25, 2013 July 24, 2013 October 1, 1998  --  Ronald L. Rivest September 18, 2013  --  Larry Greenemeier July 3, 2013  --  Tech Talker Eric Escobar July 15, 2013  --  Larry Greenemeier Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.