Read Our Latest Issue Israeli chemists have come up with the first rechargeable battery made from magnesium--a less expensive, more environmentally friendly and safer metal than those used in current systems. Better yet, the researchers expect that the magnesium battery's energy density could be made considerably higher than what is possible in common lead-acid and nickel-cadmium batteries. They describe their invention in today's issue of  The new battery from Doron Aurbach and his colleagues at Bar-Ilan University follows the same basic blueprint for any battery--including an anode, cathode and conducting electrolyte. The anode is made from magnesium, as is the case in some existing, one-life military batteries. But the other two elements represent the advance. Because of magnesium's particular chemistry, most electrolytes ruin the anode's surface, but Aurbach and his team use solutions based on magnesium organohaloaluminate salts that don't create the same surface films. And the cathode is made from Mg Mo S (where x is a number between zero and one), which unlike most other cathode materials can reversibly bind to the magnesium ions created when the anode reacts. It is this reversal that makes the battery system rechargeable. In fact, the new battery can be recharged more than 2,000 times and produces up to 1.3 voltsan amount that the team hopes to pump up to 1.7 volts with further refinements. Aurbach predicts that the battery will be commercially available within a year, serving first as a means to supply uninterrupted power to computer networks during outages. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.