Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Some velvet spiders offer up their bodies to their children--and make it easier for the kiddos to dig in by regurgitating their own tissues Motherhood typically entails sacrifice, but for most species, the altruism is temporary. Eggs are laid, the young leave the nest, life goes on. Not so for , a velvet spider that inhabits Israel's Negev Desert. practices the most extreme--and permanent--form of maternal devotion: matriphagy, in which offspring consume their mother. Entomologists have wondered about the gory details of this caregiving strategy for years. Is the mother simply eaten as is, or does she prep her innards to make them go down easy? The latter turns out to be the case. Her tissues begin degrading before her young have even hatched, according to research published in the . "Everything is really reprogrammed, as if she's planning ahead," says Mor Salomon, an entomologist then at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Salomon and her colleagues examined microscopic cross sections of female velvet spiders at each stage of the reproductive process. The tissues began showing light signs of degradation immediately after the egg sac was laid. Then, when the babies emerged 30 days later, the degeneration intensified. "Where the boundary of an organ was very clear, in the next picture you see it becomes blurry, and in the next one, it's gone," Salomon says. That breakdown allows the spider to regurgitate portions of her liquefied gut to feed her growing young. As early as nine days after hatching, the mother stops regurgitating, and the juveniles descend on their still living mother for a final family meal. They suck dry all remaining fluids and then vacate the nest, leaving behind the husk of her exoskeleton. Within a year the matured females will pay that maternal largesse forward--offering up their own bodies to the next generation. This article was originally published with the title "Mother, May I ... Eat You?" in Scientific American  313, 4, 19 (October 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1015-19 Rachel Nuwer is a freelance journalist and author of (Da Capo Press, 2018). She lives in Brooklyn, N.Y. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.