Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the January 2010 issue of In " ," Alejandro Jenkins and Gilad Perez say that life would be possible in a universe without the weak nuclear force. But they fail to note that the weak force is unique in treating matter and antimatter asymmetrically. Only because of this asymmetry did matter slightly outweigh antimatter before nearly all antimatter annihilated with an equal amount of matter, within the first seconds after the big bang. Everything we see--including stars, which are essential to life--is composed of that slight excess of matter. A universe without the asymmetric weak force would have virtually no normal matter and hence no life in any form we might recognize. Robert L. Piccioni The writer is author of THE AUTHORS REPLY That information about "Life, the Universe, and Everything" could be found on none other than page 42 of this issue was ironic, given that this number had been specified in 1979 as the "Answer to the Ultimate Question" in Douglas Adams's classic text, . For those of us who can barely get around the monoverse we find ourselves living in, it is a comfort to know that has provided additional evidence that a convergence of multiverses arises from this locus, 42, as predicted by Adams. William D. Brown Seekonk, Mass. In " " [Perspectives], the editors write that "many companies are hesitant to invest in nanotechnology R&D, fearing the exposure to legal action that could result if one day a technology is deemed dangerous. Procter & Gamble, for example, is not pursuing nanotechnology because of the long-term risk of litigation." Contrary to what was stated, P&G is interested in nanotechnology, and we are actively pursuing the benefits it can deliver. We believe it holds great potential to bring exciting new levels of performance to products people use everyday. Nanotechnology opens up many possibilities to boost performance, reduce environmental impact and improve sustainability in virtually every consumer product category. As with any new technology, however, the potential for adverse effects must be understood, and the technology should advance only as fast as our ability to thoroughly evaluate it. We are taking an appropriately cautious approach with nanotechnology. In addition to our own research programs, we are also working together with others in the industry, with university labs and with government scientists to ensure the right tools are in place for the responsible development of this promising technology. Mark Lafranconi Section Head, Central Product Safety Procter & Gamble In " ," Alan Robock and Owen Brian Toon claim that a nuclear exchange of 100 Hiroshima-size weapons between India and Pakistan would cause a global catastrophe from smoke particles lofted into the stratosphere. How do the authors reconcile the massive amount of smoke pumped into the earth's atmosphere during World War II? Toward the end of the war, more than 60 Japanese cities were firebombed. Other areas to consider, of course, are the British, German and Russian cities burned and destroyed during the war, as well as particularly "dirty" bombings like the oil refineries at Ploesti, Romania and numerous major battles. In my opinion, the authors have overstated the global damage from a nuclear war of the type they describe, and perhaps they did not consider thoroughly enough the environmental effects incurred during WWII. Kevin A. Capps Corona del Mar, Calif. THE AUTHORS REPLY: This article was originally published with the title "Antimatter Nanotech Safety Firestorms" in Scientific American  302, 5, 8-10 (May 2010) 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.