Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A preview by our editor in chief of the June 2016 issue of Talk about humble beginnings. Most of our notions about our mammal ancestors portray them as shrewlike critters barely eking out an existence in the shadow of dinosaurs for millions of years. When the hulking giants got felled in the aftermath of environmental changes from a giant meteor impact, the pathetic warm-blooded runts finally got to make their move, eventually blossoming into the wide diversity of successful species we see today, including humans. Not so fast. As paleontologists Stephen Brusatte and Zhe-Xi Luo write in this issue's cover story, a series of spectacular recent fossil discoveries reveal surprising twists on the old tales you learned in your schoolbooks. Millions of years before it was ever thought possible, evolution began to lay the groundwork for mammals to become the world's dominant vertebrate species. The tiny animals developed an array of specializations and evolutionary innovations, making them adept at taking advantage of a variety of ecosystem niches. Their tooth shapes enabled the processing of new foods, and their growth patterns enhanced survival of their young. Early mammals came to climb, to glide, to swim. Ultimately, as we know, they crawled all over this blue planet. The process of science has many admirable traits, and one of them is how it builds on prior knowledge--which is ideally freely shared. For that reason, a little over a year ago 's parent company began an experiment of its own: through the use of software from ReadCube, supported by the company Digital Science, it enabled readers of this magazine and about 100 other mass-market publications free access to view original research papers published in close to 50 journals, including . Readers who clicked on links placed in articles at ScientificAmerican.com and elsewhere could follow their curiosity, delving deeper into the methods and results of published findings. Each paper received an average of 200 more views during the 15-month trial. Now I'm delighted to report that such content sharing is extended to the entire Springer Nature portfolio, covering more than 2,700 journals and 300,000 new articles a year. That means there's a whole new world of science freely available, just for you. This article was originally published with the title "A Success Story" in Scientific American  314, 6, 4 (June 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0616-4 Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.