Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Water vapor erupting from this Jovian moon could offer new pathways for exploring its subsurface ocean An ocean within Jupiter's icy moon Europa may be intermittently venting plumes of water vapor into outer space, according to a new study in the . The finding suggests the ocean, thought to lie underneath perhaps 100 kilometers of ice, may be more amenable to life--and more accessible to curious astrobiologists--than previously thought. "If there are plumes emerging from Europa, it is significant because it means we may be able to explore that ocean for organic chemistry or even signs of life without having to drill through unknown miles of ice," says study lead William Sparks, an astronomer at the Space Telescope Science Institute. The plumes would also suggest a potent source of heat lurking within Europa that could sustain living things. With the help of the Hubble Space Telescope's imaging spectrograph, Sparks and his team observed Europa 10 times between late 2013 and early 2015 as it crossed the face of Jupiter. Watching in ultraviolet light, in which Europa's icy surface appears dark, they looked for silhouettes of any plumes contrasted against Jupiter's bright, smooth cloudscapes. Intensive image processing unveiled what looked like three instances of ultraviolet shadows soaring over the southern edge of Europa's dark bulk. If the shadows were produced by plumes and not glitches in Hubble's instruments, they would collectively contain an estimated few million kilograms of water and reach about 200 kilometers above Europa's surface. Sparks acknowledges that his team's results remain frustratingly hazy. "These observations are at the limit of what Hubble can do," he says. "We do not claim to have proven the existence of plumes but rather to have contributed evidence that such activity may be present." Previous evidence of similar plumes was reported in 2014 in , but after follow-up observations, those water vapor spouts seemed to have stopped--or were not there in the first place. In that regard, "this [new observation] is exactly as likely as the last detections" to be real, says Britney Schmidt, who is a planetary scientist at the Georgia Institute of Technology and was not involved with the research. Such caution is justified--the presence (or absence) of Europa's plumes could profoundly alter the future of interplanetary exploration, redirecting billions of dollars in funding toward new exploratory missions. NASA and the European Space Agency already aim to lead missions to the tantalizing Jovian moon in the 2020s. This article was originally published with the title "Hope Springs Eternal for Easy Access to Water on Europa" in Scientific American  315, 6, 20 (December 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1216-20 Lee Billings is a senior editor for space and physics at . Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.