Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The technology helps conservationists keep track of the big cats' whereabouts Even the king of the jungle can't escape getting his picture taken these days. In June the Kenya-based Lion Guardians launched the Lion Identification Network of Collaborators (LINC). The database of lion profiles was built with the first facial-recognition software specifically designed to analyze the mugs of these big cats and distinguish them from one another. With LINC, the conservation organization and other wildlife researchers will have an easier way to monitor the beasts' whereabouts. Their movements throughout Africa are poorly understood, and tracking efforts come with a host of difficulties: GPS transmitters are expensive, run out of batteries every one to three years, and can be fitted only when an animal is sedated. In addition, unlike leopards, cheetahs and tigers--whose spots and stripes make identification fairly easy--adult lions lack recognizable coat patterns. Within the next few months about 1,000 lions will be added to LINC; the more photographs that are entered, the more accurate the software will become at identifying an individual. By keeping tabs on the cats' peregrinations, conservationists can better understand where lions find mates, water and prey, for example, as well as the nuanced changes to population dynamics caused by human expansion. One need not get up close and personal to capture useful pictures. Shots snapped from up to 100 feet away will do the trick, says Stephanie Dolrenry, co-founder of Lion Guardians. Photo bombers and the most skittish lions alike typically turn to look at their pursuers before running away. This article was originally published with the title "Facebook for the Ferocious" in Scientific American  313, 1, 21 (July 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0715-21 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.