Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The new guidelines will provide more realistic serving sizes and highlight calorie counts By Dipika Jain The U.S. Food and Drug Administration said it would update guidelines for nutritional labels on packaged food and beverages to include information on added sugar and to prominently display calorie count and servings. The move comes at a time the United States is staring at increasing childhood and adult obesity and lifestyle diseases such as heart problems. The FDA said on Friday that the modified guidelines, which companies would have to adopt within two years, would help consumers "make informed decisions about the foods they eat and feed their families." ( ) "What and how much people eat and drink has changed since the last serving size requirements were published in 1993," the FDA said. Currently, companies are required to provide details on the total amount of sugar in a product. Under the modified guidelines, they will have to break down details on the amount of added sugar such as corn syrup and white and brown sugar. Information about "Calories from Fat" will be removed because research shows the type of fat is more important than the amount, the FDA said. According to Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more than a third of U.S. adults are obese. First Lady Michelle Obama, who has used her White House position to launch the "Let's Move" campaign to fight childhood obesity, had called for the changes two years ago. February 27, 2014  --  Rachael Rettner and LiveScience September 1, 2013  --  Rob Dunn January 20, 2016  --  Nutrition Diva Monica Reinagel August 11, 2015  --  Dina Fine Maron August 19, 2015  --  Dina Fine Maron Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.