Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue We've come a long way since Oregon Trail "For many kids, traditional education is neither relevant nor engaging," . "Digital games, on the other hand, captivate them." The good news is that "even games that seem to have no redeeming value can deliver positive, lasting neuropsychological effects." The better news, Gershenfeld argues, is that properly designed educational games, informed by research, have the potential to transform education. Game-based education isn't there quite yet but the earliest contenders have begun to appear, and they range from modifications to existing games to tools for redesigning entire curricula. Here's a peek at three of the most interesting. 1. qCraft If you know a child over the age of five, you have heard of Minecraft, whose devoted 25 million-plus players spend hours constructing worlds from LEGO-like blocks. qCraft is a modification of Minecraft designed to introduce players to a few of the freakier concepts of quantum physics. This video gives a good introduction. 2. Gamestar Mechanic The process of designing a video game turns out to be an intellectually engaging task, one that exercises many of the higher-order skills emphasized in the Common Core. That's why more than 6,000 schools and after-school programs have begun using Gamestar Mechanic to teach kids to design their own games. Since its launch in 2010 Gamestar Mechanic has been played more than 15 million times in 100 countries, yielding 500,000 original student-designed games. from on . 2. Historia Rick Brennan and Jason Darnell, social studies teachers at Lanier Middle School in Texas, responded to their students' utter lack of interest in history by making a game of it. The original version, showcased in the following video, was analog--based entirely on paper. This year, the company that Brennan and Darnell created, Histrionix Learning Co., together with E-Line Media and Upper One Games, will release a digital version of Historia for interactive whiteboard, tablet and Mac/PC. This article was originally published with the title "The New Rule of Educational Video Games: Dont Be Boring [Video]" in Scientific American  310, 2,  (February 2014) Seth Fletcher is chief features editor at . His book, , is about the Event Horizon Telescope and the quest to take the first picture of a black hole. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.