Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue The fish control the range of their potent water pistols by adjusting their mouths Archer fish are the sharpshooters of the animal world, capable of hitting prey from metres away with pinpoint accuracy. The fish, which live in mangroves in southern and southeast Asia, achieve this by compressing their gill covers, and forcing water through a 'gun barrel' made by their tongue and the roof of their mouth. To determine how the fish aim these water cannons, animal physiologists Peggy Gerullis and Stefan Schuster, who are both at the University of Bayreuth in Germany, trained the fish to fire at specific targets. They then used a high-speed camera to film the animals as they shot at targets of different heights. The researchers found that the fish adjusted the speed of the jets so that they were most focused and forceful just before reaching a target. To do this, the archer fish controlled their water jets by adjusting the rate at which they opened and closed their mouths. When they needed to hit a faraway target 60 centimeters above the water, the fish sprayed water for a longer period of time, opening their mouth more gradually, than when aiming for a target 20 cm above the water. Gerullis and Schuster report their results in . Ewen Callaway trabaja para la revista . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.