Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue From : Games, activities, books and films designed to inspire a greener lifestyle  Search for organic restaurants and green cleaning services on Ecovian, a guide to eco-friendly businesses in certain U.S. cities. The site rates the businesses on a scale of "greenness."  Newspapers and aluminum cans are relatively easy to recycle. Earth911 is a database of where to recycle less conventional items--everything from printer cartridges and televisions to paint, car parts, asbestos and even explosives.     Tax credits, rebates and other incentives in your state for all kinds of home and business projects that save energy or use renewable power can be found at the Database of State Incentives for Renewables & Efficiency.  Recycle your old kicks by dropping them off at one of 300 locations worldwide sponsored by Nike's Reuse-A-Shoe program. The shoes are turned into materials for synthetic running tracks and tennis courts.   Waterways are a precious resource. Volunteer to help monitor water quality and collect trash with local "stream teams" and other groups. The Adopt Your Watershed campaign tracks such initiatives around the country.  The Clean Up the World campaign, supported by the United Nations Environment Program, helps to coordinate volunteers to plant trees, recycle and participate in many Earth-friendly activities. To date, some 35 million people have taken part. Clean Up the World Weekend in 2009 is September 19-20.  The Ecopalooza Green Living Network offers an online calendar of eco-events around the U.S. Feel free to submit your own.  You might know the calls of birds in your backyard, but if you don't mind learning a few frog calls you could help scientists monitor amphibian populations throughout the spring and summer.   by Holly Hughes, with Larry West (Wiley). Forget about visiting places before you die. See these natural, cultural and historic spots before they expire. by The Worldwatch Institute (W.W. Norton). This annual climate change handbook provides analyses of and solutions to one of the biggest problems of our time. This online bookseller based in the U.K. publishes a wide variety of guides on green topics, including growing wild mushrooms and planning your eco-funeral.   Tired of Blockbuster night? Green Planet Films, a nonprofit organization, rents and sells DVDs on topics ranging from the coal and fishing industries to bicycle advocacy and recycling for kids.  In just one minute, you can learn about the world's energy future, climate change, what to do with the waste from gold mines and other cool (or hot) topics from Scientific American's 60-Second Earth podcast.   Green buildings seem to be popping up everywhere. But sustainable universities, neighborhoods, towns and entire urban centers are featured in Green Community, an exhibit at the National Building Museum in Washington, D.C., until October 25.  Audubon Insectarium--a museum devoted to bugs--recently opened its doors in New Orleans. Exhibits show that insects are not only important for pollinating and decomposing--key factors in maintaining biodiversity and viable ecosystems--sometimes they're even tasty.  This article was originally published with the title "Resources" in SA Special Editions 19, 1s, 83 (March 2009) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanearth0309-83 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.