Read Our Latest Issue "Scientists do continually try to measure the constants of
physics, but the usual motivation is to get more precise values,
rather than to check whether those values have changed. If you
had a technique to measure the speed of light that was no better
than one that was previously used, you might not bother to make
another measurement unless there were some reason to believe the
previous value was in error. Moreover, if you did measure the
speed of light and got an anomalous value, the odds are good
that you would conclude that you had made a mistake in the
measurement, rather than that the speed of light 'hiccuped' that
particular day. State-of-the-art measurement techniques are
extremely complex and require all sorts of checks to be sure
they have been performed correctly. If in fact the constants of
nature were changing, it would be very difficult to know how
precise your experiment needed to be to detect such a change,
unless you had some way of estimating the expected rate of
change. Random, occasional hiccups in the constants almost
certainly would go undetected. "The physicist Paul
A. M. Dirac once suggested that the universal gravitational
constant, G, that measures the strength of attraction every
particle of matter feels for every other particle was actually
weakening with time, in proportion to the age of the universe
since the big bang. According to Dirac's theory, the force of
gravity would be only half as strong in 10 billion years as it
is today. Given this specific prediction of the rate of
weakening, scientists could make a specific test. The moon's
distance from the earth is understood to be slowly increasing
because of its tidal interaction with the earth (as tidal
friction slows the rotation of the earth, the size of the moon's
orbit must increase to conserve the total angular moment of the
earth-moon system). If gravity were growing weaker with time,
the moon would recede from the earth even faster than
conventional theory predicted. Precise timing measurement of
laser pulses from the earth bounced off reflectors that the
Apollo astronauts left on the moon shows that the moon is indeed
slowly receding but only at the expected rate, not the faster
one Dirac's theory would imply. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.