Read Our Latest Issue A tale of the Tortoise and the Hare...
and the fly and the worm and the mouse It was news that made some spectators ready to switch bets. But, in fact, the race is still too close to call. The Human Genome Project, which has steadily worked at cracking the human genome since 1990, is also near completion of a "working draft." And Celera's announcement doesn't necessarily mean they have got the prize yet. Celera's researchers used a "shotgun approach." They took one person's DNA (the molecule that contains all genes), chopped it up into little pieces and determined the sequence of base pairs in each piece. Now, however, they have to put the pieces back together. Only when they complete this jigsaw puzzle will they have sequenced the genome. But using giant computers that crunch numbers day and night, Celerea may finish this assembly any week from now.  Then scientists will have to sort out what the individual genes do. And this is where yeast, worms and flies can help: Although they may not look it, these so-called model organisms share a lot of genetic information with humans. "I think about 40 percent of all yeast genes have a human counterpart or have a gene which is similar in function in humans," says Marc Cockett, executive director of Functional Genomics at Bristol-Myers Squibb. And these organisms are a lot easier to study than people: they breed faster, and their genes are easy to manipulate. Compared with animals like mice, they are cheaper to raise. Thus, by finding out how their genes work,we can learn a lot about our own genes. So far geneticists have boarded three such species on the "Ark of Genomes," sequencing their genomes completely: Baker's yeast ( ), the nematode worm and the fruit fly . (Celera and the Berkeley Drosophila Genome Project just jointly published the fly genome last month in ). Soon, the mouse--which from a genetic point of view is nearly human--will join this ship: its genome is sought in another race between the publicly funded mouse genome sequencing project and Celera. And the zebrafish, which is transparent when it is young and so lets researchers watch its organs grow, will probably be next in line.   The good news is that because the genes of these organisms are so similar to our own, they can help reveal new cures for genetic diseases. As much as 60 percent of the 289 known human disease genes have counterparts in Says Kevin Fitzgerald, a worm researcher at Bristol-Myers Squibb, "Some of the same genes and components that are responsible for cancer, breast cancer for instance, or Alzheimer's disease, are actually found, and they seem to function very similarly, in both worms and flies." Even simple baker's yeast, which consists of only one cell to our billions, is playing a role in studies of how cancer treatments work. To date, yeast has taught scientists a lot about cell division and DNA repair, processes that go wrong in cancer. And researchers at the "Seattle project", an effort funded by the National Cancer Institute to find new anticancer drugs, are mutating genes in yeast cells--such as the ATM gene or the mismatch repair genes--that often lead to cancer in humans. Then they expose these mutated yeast cells to a whole range of chemical compounds used in cancer therapy to find which ones will kill them. The results give clues as to how these drugs work and how they can be improved.   "Let's say we want to find a new antidiabetic compound," explains Geoffrey Duyk, CEO of Exelixis, a California-based company that specializes in model organisms. "We know that in type II diabetes, most patients are essentially resistant to the action of insulin. So what you do in the model systems is you create one mutation, or a series of mutations, which makes those organisms resistant to the action of insulin. Then essentially what you are looking for is suppressor mutations, things which alter other genes, which change the sensitivity of the organism for insulin. And then you find the corresponding vertebrate genes and ask whether they do the same thing." And drugs acting on the products of these genes might have the same effect as the mutations--change the insulin response back to normal. In the end, of course, understanding how the genes of a worm or fly work can never fully explain the human genome. "There is a second phase of any project, which is it needs to be extrapolated into mammalian cells. And that's independent of whether you are in yeast, in flies or in says Stephen Friend, president of Rosetta Inpharmatics in Seattle and formerly one of the coordinators of the Seattle project. But studying the genomes of other organisms stands to offer valuable, if indirect, lessons in understanding our own genes, once the race to read them is closed. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.