Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Back in 1997, the conservative National Wilderness Institute petitioned the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service to remove the Hawaiian hawk, or ' ), from the Endangered Species Act (ESA). The fws finally moved forward on the proposal in February, asking for public comments on the pending delisting. The hawk joined the endangered species list in 1967, fewer than six months after passage of the original Endangered Species Preservation Act, the predecessor to the current ESA. The only modern hawk native to Hawaii, the 'io, in 1967, was limited to just a small portion of Hawaii Island (aka the Big Island). The original causes of its decline are unknown, but today it has expanded its range across nearly 60 percent of the island. More than 40 years of legal protection and recovery efforts seem to have helped the Hawaiian hawk. Since 1967 the species' population has grown to around 3,000--a number that seems to have been stable since 1998 despite continued urbanization on the Big Island and risks from invasive species. But the newspaper found that many Hawaiians do not think the ' should be delisted. The owner of an animal sanctuary told the paper that people still shoot the birds--she recently rehabilitated two hawks that had been shot with a BB gun--and that their habitat continues to shrink. One Hawaiian cultural practitioner said he sees the birds less often than he did 10 or 20 years ago. The hawks are valued in Hawaiian culture as a symbol of royalty. Even if the hawk is delisted, it will be protected under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, a 1918 federal law. The fws would also act as a monitor for at least five years to make sure that new threats do not emerge--oversight that is needed. Hawaii is, after all, known as the "extinction capital of the world." This article was originally published with the title "A Symbol of Royalty Makes a Tentative Comeback" in Scientific American  310, 5, 17 (May 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0514-17 John R. Platt is the editor of The Revelator. An award-winning environmental journalist, his work has appeared in Scientific American, Audubon, Motherboard, and numerous other magazines and publications. His "Extinction Countdown" column has run continuously since 2004 and has covered news and science related to more than 1,000 endangered species. John lives on the outskirts of Portland, Ore., where he finds himself surrounded by animals and cartoonists. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.