Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world In now flooded caves, the oldest known ochre mines in the Americas. Around 12,000 years ago inhabitants of the Yucatan Peninsula extracted the red pigment, possibly for use as an antiseptic and sunscreen or for symbolic purposes such as body painting. A massive bloom of pink algae, triggered by low snowfall and high spring and summer temperatures, of the Presena glacier by causing the ice to absorb more sunlight. At least in the Okavango Panhandle since March, and live elephants have acted disoriented or seemed partially paralyzed. With poaching and anthrax ruled out as potential causes, investigators suspect an unknown disease. A seven-million-year-old crocodile skull suggests the prehistoric animals may have traveled from Africa to the Americas. Computerized tomography of the fossil, found in Libya, in the middle of the snout--a feature of modern American crocodiles but not their African counterparts. Through a genetic analysis of modern-day Polynesians and Indigenous people from South America's Pacific coast, the two groups came into contact between A.D. 1150 and 1230. Where the transoceanic encounter occurred remains unknown, but the team suspects eastern Polynesia. The called Hope marked the first interplanetary mission conducted by an Arab nation. Carrying instruments to study the Red Planet's daily and seasonal weather, the spacecraft is set to enter Martian orbit in February 2021. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  323, 4, 23 (October 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1020-23 was a 2020 AAAS Mass Media Fellow at . Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.