Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue New research indicates that climate change has triggered an unstoppable decay of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet, eventually leading to at least three meters of global sea level rise New research indicates that climate change has already triggered an of the West Antarctic Ice Sheet. The projected decay will lead to at least 4 feet of accelerating global sea level rise within the next two-plus centuries, and at least 10 feet of rise in the end. What does the U.S. ? The radically transformed map would lose 28,800 square miles of land, home today to 12.3 million people. These figures come from Climate Central published in 2012, analyzing and every coastal city, county and state in the lower 48 states. (A of research is currently under way.) More than half of the area of 40 large cities (population over 50,000) is less than 10 feet above the high tide line, from and (the largest affected), down to (smallest). Twenty-seven of the cities are in Florida, where one-third of all current housing sits below the critical line -- including 85 percent in and counties. Each of these counties is more threatened than any whole state outside of Florida - and each sits on bedrock filled with holes, rendering defense by seawalls or levees almost impossible. By the metric of most people living on land less than 10 ft above the high tide line, is most threatened in the long run, with a low-lying population count of more than 700,000. Sixteen other cities, including ; ; ; ; ; and ; are on the list of places with more than 100,000 people below the line. (Much of New Orleans is already below sea level, but is protected at today's level by levees.) Climate Central's enhanced analysis paints a much more detailed pictured for completed states. For example, more than and currently sit on affected land in . Threatened property in and totals more than $300 billion. And New England states all face important risks. The predicted sea level rise will take a long time to unfold. The numbers listed here do not represent immediate or literal threats. Under any circumstances, coastal populations and economies will reshape themselves over time. But the new research on West Antarctic Ice Sheet decay -- and the amount of humanity in the restless ocean's way -- point to unrelenting centuries of defense, retreat, and reimagination of life along our coasts.    November 12, 2012 Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.