Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the October 2017 issue of In "Put Science Back in Congress" [Science Agenda], the editors advocate for a nonbinding science advisory board to educate Congress on scientific issues. The problem, however, is much deeper. Having congressional committees such as the House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology composed of nonscientists is in itself quite ridiculous. And most of the people on them don't even want to be advised about science. They surely wouldn't take any advice seriously. The very least that is needed is a blue-ribbon panel of real scientists. Further, the editors suggest that "industry representatives" can "still have a voice" but should "counsel the committees separately." There is no need to include such nonscientist representatives. They are only thinking about their profits. Science is not a debate society where sophistry is more important than facts and evidence. I urge to take a much stronger stance against science deniers. JOHN JAROS Melinda Wenner Moyer's article "Journey to Gunland" ignores virtually all of the literature on right-to-carry laws and gun ownership since 1998. About two thirds of the peer-reviewed, published literature show that concealed-carry laws help to reduce crime. I provided Moyer with those papers, but she doesn't give a single reference to them, and she appears unaware of any of my research after 1998. Moyer quotes physician Garen Wintemute: "Few studies ... suggest that liberalizing access to concealed firearms has ... beneficial effects." But she ignores 24 peer-reviewed publications just showing that crime in the U.S. drops after people are allowed to carry concealed handguns. Take one example of Moyer's bias: She has a long discussion about Arthur Kellermann's work on the risks of guns in the home and says that Kellermann studied "444 people who had been killed between 1987 and 1992 at home." But she fails to note that in was the murder weapon a gun that had been kept in the home. JOHN R. LOTT, JR. Maryland Law Review any weapon. "Dangerous Medicine," an excerpt of Lindsey Fitzharris's book , ends by justly celebrating Joseph Lister's lifesaving work in elucidating and fighting postoperative infection. But it is troubling that it fails to note the earlier, disregarded discovery of antisepsis by Ignaz Semmelweis. It has become sadly customary to fault cantankerous, self-assured scientific pioneers for the failure of their benighted contemporaries to recognize their genius. The tragic delay in implementing antisepsis should remind us of our obligation to see truth for what it is, regardless of the social niceties of the creative genius. JEFF FREEMAN In "Sky Gods for Skeptics" [Skeptic], Michael Shermer quotes an earlier column in which he said that "any sufficiently advanced extraterrestrial intelligence [ETI] is indistinguishable from God." How advanced is "sufficiently" advanced, and which observer determines it? And for whom is it "indistinguishable"? An iPhone-worshipping Neandertal? Also, clerics usually assign to God the attributes of mercy, even regret and anger, which are obliquely if at all related to intelligence. How can an all-knowing being regret anything? Would Shermer's God-like ETI thus lack mercy or regret or need to control anger? ROBERT N. TAUB "The Neutrino Puzzle," by Clara Moskowitz, refers to most particles, including protons and neutrons, acquiring mass by interacting with the Higgs field. Protons and neutrons do not directly interact with the field, but their constituents, quarks, do. This article was originally published with the title "Letters" in Scientific American  318, 2, 4-5 (February 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0218-4 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.