Read Our Latest Issue "When you see an oil film on the road on a rainy day, it gives rise to
bands of beautiful colors for the following reason: "Small amounts of oil are usually present on the road surface (for
instance, lubricating oil from cars, trucks and bicycles). When it rains,
drops of oil float on the layer of water that collects on the road because
the density of oil is less than that of the water--the same reason that
wood floats on water. Commercial oil formulations usually contain a
surfactant, an additive that causes the oil drops to spread out into a
thin film atop the water. That film is thickest in the center of the
patch, or oil slick, and thinnest at the periphery. "Light reflects upward both from the top of the oil film and from the
underlying interface between the oil and the water; the path length (the
distance from the reflection to your eye) is slightly different depending
on whether the returned light comes from the top or from the bottom of the
oil film. If the difference in path length is an integral multiple of the
wavelength of the light, rays reflected from the two locations will
reinforce each other, a process called constructive interference. If,
however, the rays reach your eye out of step, they will cancel each other
out due to destructive interference. "Sunlight contains all the colors of the rainbow--the famous ROYGBIV (red,
orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, violet). Each color of light has a
different wavelength. Hence, a given disparity in the path length will
cause constructive interference of certain colors, whereas other colors
will not be observed because of destructive interference. Because the oil
film gradually thins from its center to its periphery, different bands of
the oil slick produce different colors. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.