Read Our Latest Issue A turning activity from Science Buddies Physics Engineering Gears Mechanics Did you know that gears are all around you? You can find them in wind-up toys, bicycles, carousels, cars and trucks, cranes, drills, wind turbines, analog watches, and so forth! If you've looked closely at a moving bicycle, you have seen gears at work. Are you curious about their purpose? In this activity you will use candy to make gears and explore why they are so versatile. A gear is a special type of wheel. It is a disk that has teeth, called cogs, around its edge. Most of the time the teeth of two gears interlock, making the two wheels turn together. Sometimes the teeth mesh with a chain that connects the gears. You have probably seen this setup in bicycles. Gears make tasks easier for humans and for motors. In many machines humans or motors make an axle (a rod that runs through a wheel or gear) turn, and the right gears can make the turning more efficient. Choosing the right combination of gears is the key to efficient work. Some bikes allow you to choose gears. Depending on the choice the chain will connect different sizes of gears, giving the rider many options for power and efficiency. It allows the rider to conquer a steep hill or move at a fast speed when going downhill--all with the same bike. Using the gears well allows riders to adjust their bicycles to the conditions that they are riding in. You probably noticed that the smaller a gear is, the faster it rotates. This happens because smaller gears have fewer teeth. Did you also notice that the direction of rotation is the reverse of the other gear when the gears mesh? Smaller gears have fewer teeth and thus, compared with larger gears, they rotate through fewer teeth before finishing a full rotation. This allows them to turn faster. Take the example of a gear with twelve teeth connected to a gear with six teeth. The gear with twelve teeth turns half as fast because it has twice the number of teeth. The interlocking mechanism guarantees that the same number of teeth pass the point where they mesh. When one gear turns over six teeth the other will turn over six teeth as well. When the gear with six teeth makes a full turn the second gear only shifts over six of its twelve teeth. It only makes half a turn and so it rotates half as fast.  , from ScienceOnline  from Science Buddies  , from Science Buddies  , from  , from Science Buddies 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.