Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A preview by our editor in chief of the April issue of We're used to thinking of black holes as places where gravity is so strong not even light can escape--where an unnoticed crossing by a hapless astronaut over an unseen and un-felt "event horizon" nonetheless means a point of no return. "According to Einstein's general theory of relativity, no signposts would mark the spot where the chance of escape dropped to zero," writes physicist Joseph Polchinski. But in this issue's cover story, " ," Polchinski paints a new picture, courtesy of his and others' work in a discipline that Albert Einstein found vexing: quantum mechanics. Replacing the unknowable border to an eternity of darkness is a stormy "firewall" of instantly lethal high-energy particles. "If quantum mechanics is to be trusted, firewalls are the consequence," Polchinski notes. The controversial finding arose from scientists' attempts to resolve apparent contradictions of physics that occur in extreme environments, a challenge highlighted by Stephen Hawking, among others. Nanotechnology can be equally invisible to the eye but promises far more benign--in fact, salutary--encounters. In our special report on the " ," we examine what benefits nanomedicine is bringing us already and how those will take shape in the future. We can look forward to improvements in cancer-fighting therapies, diagnostics, wound healing, delivery of drugs with nanomotors, and more. A different class of unseen actors is at work in the worrying trend of cyberattacks. Software vulnerabilities have led to hacked networks, servers, personal computers and online accounts--with theft of information from millions. Your own PC or corporate network can become enslaved to further the ends of cybercriminals. " ," by Keren Elazari, takes an unsettling look at the growing problem. Taking a military point of view, Elazari argues, will ultimately not be the most successful approach--indeed, "it might just make things worse." Instead she suggests thinking of it as a public health issue. Government agencies are key players, "but they cannot stop the spread of [cyber]diseases on their own." Success will mean that all of us play important roles. Read on to see how we can, as cybercitizens, do the equivalent of washing our hands and getting our vaccines. This article was originally published with the title "Dark and Stormy" in Scientific American  312, 4, 4 (April 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0415-4 Mariette DiChristina, Steering Group chair, is dean and professor of the practice in journalism at the Boston University College of Communication. She was formerly editor in chief of and executive vice president, Magazines, for Springer Nature. Credit: Nick Higgins 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.