Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Why people who believe in one conspiracy are prone to believe others On Wednesday, May 16, I spent several hours on a hot bus in a neon desert called Las Vegas with a merry band of British conspiracists during their journey around the Southwest in search of UFOs, aliens, Area 51 and government cover-ups, all for a BBC documentary. One woman regaled me with a tale about orange balls of energy hovering around her car on Interstate 405 in California, which were subsequently chased away by black ops helicopters. A man challenged me to explain the source of a green laser beam that followed him around the English countryside one evening. Conspiracies are a perennial favorite for television producers because there is always a receptive audience. A recent Canadian Broadcasting Corporation documentary that I participated in called , for example, featured theories behind the deaths of JFK and Princess Diana, UFOs, Area 51 and 9/11, as if there were a common thread running throughout. According to radio host and conspiracy monger Alex Jones, also appearing in the film, "The military-industrial complex killed John F. Kennedy" and "I can prove that there's a private banking cartel setting up a world government because they admit they are" and "No matter how you look at 9/11 there was no Islamic terrorist connection--the hijackers were clearly U.S. government assets who were set up as patsies like Lee Harvey Oswald." Such examples, along with others in my years on the conspiracy beat, are emblematic of a trend I have detected that people who believe in one such theory tend to believe in many other equally improbable and often contradictory cabals. This observation has recently been confirmed empirically by University of Kent psychologists Michael J. Wood, Karen M. Douglas and Robbie M. Sutton in a paper entitled "Dead and Alive: Beliefs in Contradictory Conspiracy Theories," published in the journal this past January. The authors begin by defining a conspiracy theory as "a proposed plot by powerful people or organizations working together in secret to accomplish some (usually sinister) goal" that is "notoriously resistant to falsification ... with new layers of conspiracy being added to rationalize each new piece of disconfirming evidence." Once you believe that "one massive, sinister conspiracy could be successfully executed in near-perfect secrecy, [it] suggests that many such plots are possible." With this cabalistic paradigm in place, conspiracies can become "the default explanation for any given event--a unitary, closed-off worldview in which beliefs come together in a mutually supportive network known as a monological belief system." This monological belief system explains the significant correlations between different conspiracy theories in the study. For example, "a belief that a rogue cell of MI6 was responsible for [Princess] Diana's death was correlated with belief in theories that HIV was created in a laboratory ... that the moon landing was a hoax ... and that governments are covering up the existence of aliens." The effect continues even when the conspiracies contradict one another: the more participants believed that Diana faked her own death, the more they believed that she was murdered. The authors suggest there is a higher-order process at work that they call global coherence that overrules local contradictions: "Someone who believes in a significant number of conspiracy theories would naturally begin to see authorities as fundamentally deceptive, and new conspiracy theories would seem more plausible in light of that belief." Moreover, "conspiracy advocates' distrust of official narratives may be so strong that many alternative theories are simultaneously endorsed in spite of any contradictions between them." Thus, they assert, "the more that participants believe that a person at the centre of a death-related conspiracy theory, such as Princess Diana or Osama [bin] Laden, is still alive, the more they also tend to believe that the same person was killed, so long as the alleged manner of death involves deception by officialdom. As Alex Jones proclaimed in "No one is safe, do you understand that? Pure evil is running wild everywhere at the highest levels." On his Web site, Jones headlines his page with "Because There Is a War on for Your Mind." True enough, which is why science and reason must always prevail over fear and irrationality, and conspiracy mongering traffics in the latter at the expense of the former.  Comment on this article at This article was originally published with the title "Conspiracy Contradictions" in Scientific American  307, 3, 91 (September 2012) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0912-91 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.