Read Our Latest Issue A titanosaur fibula hosts what looks like 70 tiny parasites Around 80 million years ago in what is now Brazil, a sick dinosaur limped along--but its days were numbered. Its leg bone was so diseased that it had turned spongy, and a particularly gruesome culprit may have been to blame: wormlike parasites wriggling through its bloodstream. Researchers analyzing the fossilized bone recently found strange, oblong forms in channels that once were blood vessels. The dinosaur in question was a , a large long-necked animal.* After initially noticing abnormalities in the leg bone, Aline Ghilardi at Brazil's Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte, along with her colleagues, set out to discover what ailed the titanosaur. They ruled out cancer and tuberculosis; these often reduce blood flow in affected bone areas, but this fossil's irregular surface suggested it had once been riddled with vascular canals coursing with blood and pus. A CT scan also revealed internal cavities probably associated with blood flow. The researchers concluded that this titanosaur had a rare bone condition called osteomyelitis, which causes severe inflammation. When they cut thin slices of the fossil, coated them in resin and examined them under a powerful microscope, they got a look at a startling potential cause: scattered through the bone's blood vessel cavities, they found fossilized remains of what appear to be around 70 tiny worms, each roughly the length of a dust mite. "We were totally shocked," Ghilardi says. To her knowledge, such organisms have never before been found inside dinosaur bone fossils. "We can't compare it to anything." In a article released online in October, she and her colleagues . The researchers note, however, that osteomyelitis can also be caused by bacteria, fungi and single-celled organisms called protozoa. Once inside an animal's vascular system, these can trigger severe bone inflammation as the body reacts to their presence. The wormlike structures are similar in shape to a known prehistoric parasite --but they are between 10 and 100 times bigger, so their identity remains unconfirmed. Forthcoming work compares them to a broad range of parasites, "and the story keeps getting more and more interesting," Ghilardi . There could be other explanations, however. "I'm not entirely convinced that those things are parasites, or, if they are parasites, that they have anything to do with the bone diseases," says Tommy Leung, an ecologist who studies parasite evolution at the University of New England in Australia. Leung was not involved with the research, though he was a reviewer on a previous version of the paper. If the wormlike forms were indeed living organisms, they could have entered the bone to feed on the dinosaur after it died. But the researchers argue that this is unlikely because there were no obvious fractures that such creatures might have invaded after the animal's death. Parasites are known to affect birds and reptiles today, so it makes sense that they troubled dinosaurs, too, says Paul Barrett, a paleobiologist at the Natural History Museum in London, who also was not involved with the research. To him, the fossilized objects found in Brazil look like nematodes. "It's a really neat study," Barrett says, "and it shows that by applying a range of techniques in this case to a single bone, you can get a lot of information about the biology of an individual dinosaur." Scientific American Chris Baraniuk is a freelance science and technology journalist based in the U.K. Besides , his work has been published by , the BBC, and . May 1, 2014  --  John R. Horner, Kevin Padian and Armand de Ricql&egrave;s May 23, 2018  --  Stephen Brusatte and Steve Mirsky November 14, 2018  --  Brian Switek June 29, 2016  --  Brian Switek October 15, 2020  --  Andrea Gawrylewski Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.