Read Our Latest Issue A 2005 Scientific American 50 winner moves from heart attacks to macular degeneration, and from academia to industry Scientific American . Scientific American winner.   damaged by heart attacks. Although , overturning a long-held medical tenet, they still do so very slowly. Back in 2005 Mark Keating and his colleagues at Harvard Medical School succeeded in getting heart cells in two commonly used animal models--zebra fish and rats--to mend much faster by blocking a growth-inhibiting enzyme with a drug. The work could point the way to healing humans someday.   Keating's work with developing drugs for regenerating heart tissue has largely subsided as researchers pin their hopes on stem cells, which can form myriad tissue types, and possibly cardiac muscle. "This has played out differently than I would have expected back in 2005," Keating says, although "both dreams [of using drugs or stem cells] remain alive and are moving closer to reality."  Keating is now vice president and global head of ophthalmology at the Novartis Institutes for BioMedical Research in Cambridge, Mass. He left academia for the pharmaceutical company in August 2005 to jump-start work on developing drugs for eye conditions. Besides his work at Harvard, Keating was also a researcher at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute before coming to Novartis.  Why did he make the anatomical leap from the heart to the eye? "I haven't cared if I were working in one organ system or another," Keating says. "I just want to help patients and make discoveries."  The biggest breakthrough during his time with Novartis, he says, has been Lucentis. Discovered by Genentech, licensed by Novartis and brought to market in 2007, the drug treats age-related , a in the eye that is the leading cause of vision loss for people aged 60 and older in the U.S. Keating says the drug improves vision in about a third of patients, and slows the disease's progression in nine out of 10, overall.  While at Novartis, Keating has helped identify some 40 visual ailments suitable for drug treatment, from glaucoma to diabetic retinopathy. "We're marching through all 40 of these disorders," he says. "We have a number of experiments cooking right now and will get answers over the next few years." 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.