Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the June 2018 issue of In raising the question "How Much Can We Know?" [The Biggest Questions in Science], Marcelo Gleiser focuses on human consciousness and the extent to which we can "make sense of the world." He misses the larger issue: our brains evolved to help us survive and reproduce, not to understand the cosmos. It may not be a question of whether the universe is stranger than we understand but whether it is stranger than we understand. BARRY MALETZKY . Gleiser exposes the limits of knowledge in the physical sciences. Kurt Godel settled this subject in mathematics with his incompleteness theorems in 1931. Because the sciences are rooted in mathematics, it is only natural to include his work in any such discussion of epistemology. AVERY CARR . The Island of Knowledge. . [Editors' note: Read more about Godel's incompleteness theorems in "The Unsolvable Problem".] Erik Vance's "Can You Supercharge Your Baby?" is a sensible article on the limitations of modern toys, videos and other paraphernalia in helping augment young children's mental development. Yet there is another aspect of child play he overlooks: the substitution of social games with "passive" toys used mostly alone, typically via a television, computer or cell phone, without exercise. Social games are vital for the mental and physical development of children. Perhaps most important, such games are based on rules that are accepted by all players, and they are fun only if everybody abides by those rules. Children who play with cell phones can cheat at will; they are the masters of their digital universe and thus become self-centered, without consideration for resolving social conflicts. EDUARDO KAUSEL Christof Koch's opening salvos against Daniel Dennett of Tufts University and like-minded philosophers in "What Is Consciousness?" [The Biggest Questions in Science] are misguided. Koch's basic argument is: (1) Dennett, motivated by the belief that we live in a "meaningless universe of matter and the void," denies that we have conscious experiences; (2) my toothache hurts; (3) ergo, Dennett is wrong. Those who have read Dennett carefully should recognize the falsity of the initial premise. He understands fully the reality of pain. His goal is to encourage thinkers to exercise greater caution when theorizing about their own consciousness: given the human brain's complexity, it is to be expected that some of our casual intuitions regarding its operation may be misguided. CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR . Consciousness Explained "What Is Spacetime?" [The Biggest Questions in Science], George Musser's article on quantum gravity, makes me wonder if there are differences we can observe between the cases of dark matter falling into a black hole and normal matter doing so. WONTAEK YOO I have long wondered why the speed of light exists. What is it and why is it so fundamental to physics? Musser presents the idea that atoms of space might undergo "phase transitions" and that black holes could be places where space "melts." It occurs to me that the speed of light could represent the melting point of spacetime. ERIK EASON "A Painful Mystery," by Jena Pincott, should had referred to nearly 11 hours a week as 27 percent of a 40-hour workweek rather than 7 percent. "What Are the Limits of Manipulating Nature?" by Neil Savage [The Biggest Questions in Science], incorrectly said that David Hsieh of the California Institute of Technology creates photoinduced superconductivity in a material called a Mott insulator that becomes insulating at very cold temperatures. Andrea Cavalleri of the Max Planck Institute for the Structure and Dynamics of Matter in Hamburg, Germany, and his colleagues found signs of photoinduced superconductivity in metals and insulators. Hsieh uses the same laser technique to induce unusual quantum effects in other materials. Further, the article mistakenly referred to superconductors that must be cooled to within a few degrees of absolute zero as the only practical ones yet developed. While such superconductors have found more practical applications, those exhibiting superconductivity at much higher temperatures are widely used. This article was originally published with the title "Letters" in Scientific American  319, 4, 6-8 (October 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1018-6 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.