Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A study of 16 billion e-mails reveals distinct patterns in our e-mail behavior There's nothing like firing off a carefully crafted e-mail and then waiting for what seems like an eternity for a reply. When you finally do get an answer, you might still be frustrated. What do you make of the fact that it is only 10 words long? We now have some clues about typical e-mail response patterns, thanks to a recent study drawing on 16 billion e-mails sent by more than two million people. The participants were Yahoo Mail users who allowed their anonymized data to be used in what appears to be the largest-ever analysis of e-mail behavior. The researchers, based at the University of Southern California and Yahoo Labs, used algorithms to mine data about the times messages were sent and the number of words they contained, among other factors. Here are some of the surprising revelations: The researchers included only users who wrote to one another at least five times in the months covered by the study period. After mining the data, the researchers found they could use their algorithm to predict when an e-mail conversation was nearing its end. For the first half of a dialogue, correspondents usually developed similar reply times and e-mail lengths, lobbing messages back and forth at a regular clip. Yet that similarity decreased as the conversation trailed off. Many conversations ended with a long lag before one correspondent sent a final brief reply. Of note to the anxious e-mailer: the more words in a reply, the longer it tended to take for the writer to send it--but only up to 100 words. Beyond that, the time for a reply actually dropped slightly, except for in the oldest age group. So if you're expecting a hefty reply to your mission-critical missive, it won't necessarily take any longer than a 100-word message. That may be some comfort while you wait on the edge of your seat. This article was originally published with the title "Waiting for That E-Mail" in SA Mind 27, 2, 9 (March 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0316-9a Veronique Greenwood is a science writer and essayist whose work has appeared in the , the and , among others. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.