Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Bacteria inspire a new pollution-monitoring setup Pollution from industry, agricultural runoff, pharmaceuticals and other sources contaminates water around the world, and can be expensive and time-consuming. Now researchers have developed a quick, potentially inexpensive way to test for at least 16 dangerous contaminants, including lead, copper and antibiotics, according to a study . The test takes cues from bacteria, which are especially adept at reacting to specific contaminants. "Nature has been solving this problem for billions of years," says study co-author Julius Lucks, a chemical and biological engineer at Northwestern University. His team searched the literature to find out which proteins bacteria produce to deal with various pollutants. The researchers' new, handheld testing device takes advantage of these proteins' reactions using a series of vials: each has a freeze-dried solution that incorporates a specific protein, which causes the mixture to glow green when an added drop of water contains a particular contaminant. Each solution includes custom-engineered strands of DNA with one section that a pollutant-sensing protein is bound to and another section that generates a fluorescent glow if activated. The solutions also contain RNA polymerase, which makes RNA by following a DNA strand. If the protein bound to the DNA encounters its corresponding contaminant, the protein changes shape and falls off. This lets the RNA polymerase travel all the way along the DNA strand, making the sample fluoresce green. The study is "a really nice, clever and creative use of synthetic biology and highlights what the field can do well," says Mary Dunlop, a synthetic biologist at Boston University, who was not involved in the research. Researchers have used a similar method to detect pathogens, but this device is the first to identify so many pollutants, Lucks says. The test is "very promising," says Susan Richardson, a University of South Carolina chemist, who focuses on water issues and was not involved in the research. She cautions, however, that it may need to react to lower contaminant concentrations before it can be widely useful. This article was originally published with the title "DNA Glow" in Scientific American  323, 6, 22 (December 2020) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1220-22b 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.