Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Handel, a Republican, wants to repeal the Affordable Care Act but protect preexisting conditions Karen Handel defeated Jon Ossoff for the highly contested 6th Congressional District seat in Georgia on Tuesday night. This race was the congressional race in U.S. history and a key victory for Republicans who want to hold on to their majority despite polls showing their vision for health care is widely unpopular. Handel will replace Tom Price, the former orthopedic surgeon who vacated the seat to become President Trump's health secretary. Her win continues Republicans' control over Georgia's 6th District, a seat they've held since 1979. The 55-year-old Handel, Georgia's former secretary of state, spent much of her campaign praising the American Health Care Act passed by House lawmakers this past spring. Here are five things to know about Handel's positions on health care issues: Handel says the Affordable Care Act is " " and wants to replace it with the AHCA. She does, however, concede the AHCA has its flaws. She the final bill should treat states like Georgia, which opposed Medicaid expansion, in a more "equitable way" through "market-based, patient-centered reforms." Handel, whose sister was born without an esophagus, says she wants to preserve preexisting condition protections and believes the Republican plan does just that. During one recent debate, she said "the bill in the Senate right now provides protections for individuals with preexisting conditions." Handel said in a recent debate that monthly premiums for insurance for her and her husband purchased through the Obamacare individual market skyrocketed from $350 to $1,200. (She didn't say over how many years the increase occurred.) On the campaign trail, the longtime fiscal conservative expressed her support for the AHCA, even if the replacement plan isn't perfect, because it would free people from the burden of an individual mandate. Handel is anti-abortion. She caught flak on the campaign trail for her role in getting the Susan G. Komen foundation, which supports breast cancer screenings, to pull funding from Planned Parenthood in 2012. Handel, who resigned after public backlash forced the foundation to reverse its decision, ultimately a book about the ordeal. One thing's clear: When Republican lawmakers try again to defund Planned Parenthood, they'll have an ally in Handel. Handel opposes single-payer health care, in part, because of the long waits she's seen in other nations embracing that sort of system. STAT delivers fast, deep, and tough-minded journalism. We take you inside science labs and hospitals, biotech boardrooms, and political backrooms. We dissect crucial discoveries. We examine controversies and puncture hype. We hold individuals and institutions accountable. We introduce you to the power brokers and personalities who are driving a revolution in human health. These are the stories that matter to us all. May 4, 2017 March 7, 2017  --  Lev Facher and STAT May 4, 2017  --  Julie Rovner and Kaiser Health News March 10, 2017  --  Sharon Begley and STAT Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.