Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Inspired by nature, scientists and chefs team up to design culinary wonders Finding a bug in your drink is no one's idea of a pleasant surprise. But a renowned chef and a team from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology hope that a fanciful cocktail accessory modeled after an aquatic insect will delight rather than repulse. The tiny, boat-shaped gadget propels itself around the surface of a beverage for up to two minutes using a trick borrowed from nature. The boat contains a potent liquor, which it steadily dispenses into the cocktail through a notch at one end. The difference in alcohol content between the two liquids creates a gradient in surface tension, propelling the boat forward via a phenomenon called the Marangoni effect. Many aquatic insects rely on Marangoni propulsion--but instead of spewing Bacardi 151, they release chemicals that modify the surface tension underfoot. The gizmo came into being after M.I.T. applied mathematics professor John Bush attended a talk by chef Jose Andres, who lectures on the science of cooking at Harvard University. Bush suggested that they collaborate on novel culinary designs. "Much of my research concerns surface tension," Bush says, "which is responsible for a number of interesting effects that arise in the kitchen--or the bar." The researchers also designed a flowerlike pipette that a diner can dip into a palate-cleansing cocktail to carry a droplet to his or her tongue. The pipettes fold their petals shut when pulled out of the liquid, trapping a droplet inside. The device inverts the design of floating flowers such as water lilies that close up to trap a pocket of air when water levels rise. Bush, Andres and their colleagues described the designs in the journal . This article was originally published with the title "Mixology Micromachines" in Scientific American  310, 2, 26 (February 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0214-26 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.