Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Also: books on extraterrestrial life and Charles Darwin by Dan Falk. St. Martin's Press, 2008 First it was tools, then language. Now it is time that sets humans apart in the animal kingdom--the capacity to comprehend time, that is. Science journalist Dan Falk tackles the subject from several directions, starting with time's natural cycles (the heavens, the seasons) and moving on to the calendar; hours, minutes and seconds; memory; spacetime; time travel; illusion and reality. He hooks us from the outset, as he explores the prehistoric "passage tomb" at Newgrange in Ireland, more ancient than Stonehenge and much less known. There "a sliver of sunlight" briefly creeps into the dark chamber on the morning of the winter solstice, allowing us "to glimpse, however dimly, into the minds of those who first considered the matter of time." From that point forward, Falk selects, organizes and interprets a mass of lore for our enlightenment and pleasure. We owe him. by Alan Boss. Basic Books, 2009 In early March, NASA is scheduled to launch the Kepler Mission, the first space telescope specifically designed to detect habitable worlds orbiting stars similar to our sun. In point of fact, the Europeans were there first; in late 2006 they sent into orbit CoRoT, a space telescope designed to study stars but capable of detecting Earth-like planets. Both missions have work ahead. The frequency of "habitable worlds," a rocky planet with liquid water near the surface where organisms can originate and evolve, is the most important factor in any estimate of the extent to which life has proliferated in the universe. Astronomer Alan Boss of the Carnegie Institution of Washington predicts that CoRoT and Kepler will discover abundant Earths. These telescopes are poised to prove him right or wrong, and his book provides essential and fascinating background as the drama unfolds. by Adrian Desmond and James Moore. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2009 In this controversial reinterpretation of Charles Darwin's life and work, the authors of a highly regarded 1991 biography argue that the driving force behind Darwin's theory of evolution was his fierce abolitionism, which had deep family roots and was reinforced by his voyage on the Beagle and by events in America: Reprinted by permission of Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing Co. All rights reserved. This article was originally published with the title "The Fourth Dimension Extraterrestrial Life Happy Birthday, Charles Darwin" in Scientific American  300, 2, 82 (February 2009) 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Scientific American Space & Physics is a roundup of the most important stories about the universe and beyond Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.