Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue All the gear $1.3 trillion can buy Since the attacks of September 11, Congress has approved nearly $1.3 trillion for military spending. Much of that money has gone into mounting Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan and Operation Iraqi Freedom. But some of the funds have been used to dream up and develop futuristic-sounding military devices such as exoskeletons. looked at some of these new and emerging technologies. Improved body armor has allowed far more Western troops serving in Afghanistan and Iraq to survive improvised explosive devices (IEDs) and direct-fire engagements. Now Raytheon, Lockheed Martin and other defense contractors are developing hydraulic-powered exoskeletons that soldiers will wear to ease heavy loads while increasing strength and endurance. Thanks to improvements in accuracy and a doubling of missile range, the U.S. and its allies can now "destroy a particular corner or room of a house with a rocket fired from 70 kilometers away," says Kristian Gustafson of West London's Brunel University. About the size of a rifle, the XM25 Counter Defilade Target Engagement System has been used in Afghanistan since late 2010. The weapon fires bullets with microchips that can be programmed to detonate when they reach a specific distance. Delivering food, water and ammunition to troops in the mountainous regions of Afghanistan is a challenge. That's why the military developed the Joint Precision Airdrop System (JPADS), a steerable parachute with an onboard computer and GPS, deployed in 2006. UAVs are used to perform surveillance, reconnaissance and attack missions in Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan. The biggest advance since 9/11 has been the ability to control UAVs with a joystick and computer monitor thousands of kilometers from a combat zone. Next-generation models will vary in size from as small as a bee to as large as a dirigible. Larry Greenemeier is the associate editor of technology for , covering a variety of tech-related topics, including biotech, computers, military tech, nanotech and robots. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.