Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue A new handheld device integrates LIDAR with a motion sensor, camera, processor and seven-inch touch screen to enable color mapping on the fly Major automakers--along with upstarts such as Tesla and Uber--are racing to put self-driving cars on the road, leading to advances in enabling technologies such as laser range finders known as lidars. A lidar works like a hyperactive laser measure, scattering laser light in multiple directions to gather hundreds of thousands of measurements per second and build up a "point cloud" of spatial information. A computer processes these data to form a coherent picture of a vehicle's surroundings. Now a Pittsburgh-based start-up called Kaarta has integrated a lidar--more affordable and speedier these days, thanks to accelerated development by suppliers serving the auto industry--with a motion sensor, processor and seven-inch touch screen into a handheld device. Called the Contour, the device enables architects, builders and others to generate 3-D computer models of their surroundings on the fly as they walk through them, the company says. A camera on the device captures color data and maps them onto point clouds to render models in realistic hues. When loaded into standard computer-aided design (CAD) software, the models can then form the basis of building renovation plans or other projects. The Contour moves well beyond the measuring-tape-and-clipboard approach most builders still use to get data for CAD models, Kaarta CEO Kevin Dowling says, and that will save time. The company expects to start shipping devices to customers by the second half of 2017. This article was originally published with the title "Maps on the Move" in Scientific American  316, 5, 15 (May 2017) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0517-15 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.