Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Top news from around the world Google will add every railroad crossing in the country to its Maps application. Visual and audio alerts will signal these potential hazards to users. The Federal Railroad Administration has asked Apple, TomTom and other companies that provide GPS services to do the same after a large year-over-year increase in crossing accidents in 2014. Dubai will house the first fully functional 3-D-printed building, announced the city's Museum of the Future. A 20-foot-tall printer will construct the 2,000-square-foot office. A deep-sea submarine discovered a 0.25-mile-long field of hydrothermal vents along a fault in the Gulf of California's seafloor. At 12,500 feet, they are the deepest high-temperature vents ever found in the Pacific. The World Health Organization certified the island nation as the first country to eliminate the transmission of HIV and syphilis from mother to baby. Scuba divers helped an international team of physicists install a spherical neutrino detector more than 4,000 feet below the surface of icy Lake Baikal in Siberia. A plane dumped several tons of cloud-seeding salt over central Sumatra in a government-supported effort to induce rain and relieve a seasonal heat wave. The attempt failed to produce any showers. This article was originally published with the title "Quick Hits" in Scientific American  313, 3, 25 (September 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0915-25 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.