Read Our Latest Issue New insights, technologies and fossil finds transform our image of dinosaurs Some of the most recent work has yielded provocative insights into how
dinosaurs reared their young and what dinosaur calls sounded like. Perhaps most startling of all, a Saharan expedition has
turned up the remains of a predatory dinosaur that challenges as the biggest carnivore ever to tread the
earth. Fragmentary remains of the giant lizard first turned up in northern Africa in 1927. The creature was given the
ungainly name ("shark-toothed reptile from the Sahara"), but little information could be
gleaned from the scattered fossils. Last fall, however, a University of Chicago team led by Paul C. Sereno made an expedition
to the Kem Kem region of Morocco and suddenly realized the true enormousness, and enormity, of As
reported in the May 17 issue of the creature's fossilized skull is 1.6 meters long, even larger than that of (Sereno infers that probably was the taller of the two, but took the prize for sheer bulk.) Even aside from its sheer size, is remarkable in other ways. An examination of its brain case shows a
cranial volume of just 205 cubic centimeters, roughly one eighth that of a human and just half that of It seems that was a fighter, not a thinker. Sereno and his collaborators note that is also of
interest for the information it provides about dinosaur evolution. A closely related dinosaur called which also
rivaled in size, lived in Argentina at about the same time. Sereno concludes that there was a rapid evolutionary
"radiation" of giant, carnivorous dinosaurs during the late Cretaceous (90 million to 65 million years ago). Those new species
were spreading around the globe even as plate tectonics was starting to carry the continents apart. While some
researchers focus on the greatest dinosaur predators, others are intrigued by a more placid but essential aspect of dinosaur
studies: How did they rear their young? For years, dinosaurs were popularly portrayed as stupid, sluggish animals. More
recently, scientists have begun to recognize that dinosaurs may have been more active and behaviorally complex that
previously thought; some researchers now argue that, based on their kinship with birds, dinosaurs may actually have been
attentive parents, protecting their eggs and guarding their young. Last December a group led by Mark A. Norell of the
American Museum of Natural History in New York scored a major coup for the supporters of the devoted dinosaur theory.
While fossil hunting at the Ukhaa Tolgod site in central Mongolia Norell's team happened across an unprecedented find: the
skeleton of an Oviraptor (a relative of the Velociraptors that starred in Jurassic Park) buried atop a nest of dinosaur eggs. In a
paper in the December 21/28,1995 issue of Norell claimed not only that the Oviraptor was tending to its nest but that
it did so "in the same posture taken by many living birds when brooding. This kinder, gentler vision of dinosaur behavior
did not go long unchallenged. In the May 3, 1996 issue of , Nicholas R. Geist and Terry D. Jones of Oregon State
University struck a counterblow. The two paleontologists examined the pelvic structures of newly-hatched modern birds and
crocodilians, and compared those with the pelvises of fossilized dinosaur newborns. Geist and Jones deduced that, among
living species, the degree of ossification (in essence, the strength) of the bone indicates whether a hatchling is active and
independent or weak and vulnerable. Equivalent fossil studies, the two men reasoned, could reveal whether dinosaur
hatchlings truly needed the kind of nurturing inferred by Norell's group. Geist and Jones answer with an emphatic "no."
Pelvic and leg bones in baby dinosaurs look robust, they say, leading the researchers to assert that "the nesting behavior of
dinosaurs was likely similar to that of modern crocodilians." Norell, not surprisingly, remains unconvinced, arguing that the
discovery of an Oviraptor in a nesting position is more persuasive than inferences from studies of bone strength. The
truth may lie somewhere in between. Some birds (shore birds, for instance) are born in a very capable state, and some modern
reptiles (such as pythons) are known to brood their nests. In reality, dinosaurs probably shared some parenting traits with
both birds and modern reptiles, and probably had other behaviors unlike either. And given the bewildering diversity of
dinosaur species, it is improbable that they all reared their young the same. The controversy over nesting behavior shows
just how hard paleontologists have to work to extract information not directly recorded in the fossil record. For instance, they
have long puzzled over a peculiar class of dinosaurs, known as crested duck-bills (more technically, as lambeosaurine
dinosaurs), that sported huge bony protrusions from the top of their heads. What function did these crests serve? Scientists
can only speculate, but another new fossil discovery may be bringing them closer to an answer. Last fall a team led by
Thomas E. Williamson of the New Mexico Museum of Natural History found an exceptionally well-preserved skull of a lambeosaurine dinosaur whose crest extended in a long backward arc. Williamson was eager to learn
more about the internal structure of the crest but did not want to fracture the fossil. So he turned to the world of
high-technology: St. Joseph's Hospital in Albuquerque, New Mexico donated the use of a medical computed tomography (CT)
scanner, which can create three-dimensional x-ray images. The CT scans revealed that the crest has a
previously unseen, very complicated internal structure containing multiple chambers. The exact purpose of those chambers is
still unknown, but the overall structure is consistent with the theory that the crest functioned as an acoustic resonator--a kind
of biological trumpet that may have aided in mating calls or other kinds of audible communication. To put this theory to
the test, David Weishampel of Johns Hopkins University built a model crest out of plastic tubing and tried
playing it like a wind instrument; it seemed to work well, producing resonant, musical tones. Expanding on that idea, Diane
Farish, an undergraduate at the University of New Mexico, constructed a model of the recently unearthed crest. She found that it amplifies the low frequency sounds that, Williamson speculates, may have been effective for
long-distance communication through thick jungle growth Williamson is now collaborating with Carl Diegert of Sandia
National Laboratories to construct a detailed computer model of the skull. The model can then be modified
to add in the soft tissues that do not normally survive the fossilization process. Once he is satisfied that he has achieved a
plausible reconstruction of the crest from a living Williamson plans to use the computer model to simulate
the sounds that the dinosaur could have created. Nobody will ever know exactly what sort of noises--if
any-- made. But thanks to the ingenuity of a bunch of hairless, bipedal mammals, dinosaur calls may be
heard again, for the first time in 65 million years. Corey S. Powell is a science writer, blogger and editor living in Brooklyn, N.Y. He is a visiting scholar at New York University's Science, Health and Environmental Reporting Program. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 16 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.