Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue may help shed light on contested predictions in ecology. To keep species from becoming isolated in fragmented landscapes, conservation biologists often join the patches with strips of habitat, a strategy whose usefulness has been controversial. Ornithologists from the University of Florida at Gainesville and elsewhere devised a large-scale test of such corridors with eight sites in South Carolina pine forests. Each site contained a 100-meter-square patch with wax myrtle bushes, a key source of food for the eastern bluebird. This patch was surrounded by three isolated patches and connected to a fourth by a 150-meter-long corridor. After spraying the wax myrtle fruit with fluorescent powder and analyzing the resulting 11,000 fluorescent bluebird droppings, the researchers found the feces were 37 percent more likely to occur in the connected patch than in the isolated ones, suggesting corridors do work. Their report appears in the July 1 . This article was originally published with the title "Working Corridors" in Scientific American  293, 3, 34 (September 2005) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0905-34d Charles Q. Choi is a frequent contributor to . His work has also appeared in and among others. In his spare time, he has traveled to all seven continents. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 16 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.