Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Letters to the editor from the September 2017 issue of In "Welcome to Everybody's Issue" [From the Editor], editor in chief Mariette DiChristina invites ideas to increase gender equality at . Below her editorial is a list of the 42 members of the magazine's board of advisers, of which six are women. Adding more women scientific leaders to the board seems advisable if the aim is gender parity. SHANA AELONY "When Sex and Gender Collide," by Kristina R. Olson, discusses children who choose to change gender. From age six until about 16, I wanted to be a boy. I played almost exclusively with boys, was a "tomboy," hated anything "girly" and found girls rather silly. My thinking, to this day, is much closer aligned with the masculine world, but I am definitely a woman, happily married to a man. There is no way a child has the maturity to make the drastic decision to start taking medication to change sex. ELSA HUNTLEY "A Moth's Eye," by Morgen Peck [Advances], reports on research by Shin-Tson Wu of the University of Central Florida and his colleagues on replicating the surface properties of the titular organ to reduce glare on cell-phone screens. Think of the benefit if this technology were used to increase the practical efficiency of solar panels. Also, the moth's eye uses raised bumps to achieve the desired effect, whereas the researchers produced it using dimples. Have they looked into cleanability with this approach? Such pits may trap dirt. ALEX SMITH In "Postmodernism vs. Science" [Skeptic], Michael Shermer associates recent strife on campuses with so-called "postmodern professors," falsely claiming they teach "that there is no truth, that science and empirical facts are tools of oppression by the white patriarchy." It is ironic that a top science magazine would publish an article about an area of scholarship in which the author holds no expertise and that decries scientific knowledge denial while denying knowledge produced in other fields. Scholars in many fields, including natural scientists, have shown that science has sometimes been used to justify oppression and inequality and that the institution is still struggling with sexism, racism and classism. But they have also explored how it has been central to destigmatization, liberation, progress and survival. Countering knowledge denial, whether about climate or inequality, is an urgent, shared project. Perhaps can join us in this endeavor? CHARIS THOMPSON "Beyond XX and XY," by Amanda Montanez, contributes to intersex visibility by showing that variations from what we typically think of as male or female are natural and numerous. There is just one thing we wish it had shown intersex is in need of "fixing." The flowchart indicates where surgeries can "modify" the genitals and remove the gonads of children with certain diagnoses but does not point out the serious consequences. A "feminizing" genitoplasty can cause scarring, chronic pain and permanent loss of sexual sensation, and gonadectomy results in sterilization. Montanez also neglects to note that raising a child as a boy or girl does not require surgery. Children's gender identity may not match the one they were raised with, and it should not be irreversibly enforced. KIMBERLY ZIESELMAN The graph "A Labor U-Turn" in "Women's Work," by Ana L. Revenga and Ana Maria Munoz Boudet, claims to show a link between female labor force participation and countries' per capita GDP with a parabola. I believe it is mathematically unsound. If instead of highlighting a few data points very close to the fitted curve, we colored all of them the same shade, what remained would look like a dart board. I'm also surprised no countries are given with lower than 46 percent female participation. THOMAS A. CONNER Clara Moskowitz's review of , by Ian Stewart [Recommended], incorrectly referred to Chinese mathematician Liu Hui's third-century A.D. proof of the Pythagorean theorem occurring hundreds of years before Pythagoras' birth. Liu Hui proved the theory independently of Pythagoras but did not predate him. In "Postmodernism vs. Science" [Skeptic], Michael Shermer wrote that students at Middlebury College "physically attacked" Charles Murray and Allison Stanger. A police investigation determined that several demonstrators against Murray came from outside the campus community. Although the attackers were not identified, Middlebury maintains they were not students. This article was originally published with the title "Letters" in Scientific American  318, 1, 5-6 (January 2018) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0118-5 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.