Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue This month, tackles the new era of video--videos shot and viewed as tall, thin rectangles, suitable for smartphone screens without having to turn them. It's kind of a mess: Vertical videos look ridiculous on TV sets and computer screens, but traditional horizontal videos play tiny and goofily on smartphones held upright. This isn't the first time aspect ratios (screen proportions) have changed--or have given society headaches. Here's a quick history lesson. (An aspect ratio is expressed as either a horizontal-by-vertical proportion, like 4:3, or as its resulting ratio, like 1.33. The smaller the ratio, the more square the picture; the larger the ratio, the wider the image.) You wouldn't think our history of variable aspect ratios would be a big deal; we can watch any of those movies on our TVs, tablets, and computers today. If they don't fit the screen perfectly, black bars (letterbox bars) fill the gaps. But the switch to videos is another story. A typical smartphone screen isn't 16:9; it's when held normally (upright)--completely switched. That's such a radical change in dimensions that no existing movie or TV show will fit unless it's dramatically shrunken, to the point that of the screen is black. And so far, incoming generations show no inclination to rotate the phone to solve the problem. Who knows? At this time in five years, we might go out to theaters to watch movies shot in iPhoneVision. This article was originally published with the title "A Brief History of Aspect Ratios, a.k.a Screen Proportions" in Scientific American  318, 3,  (March 2018) David Pogue is the anchor columnist for Yahoo Tech and host of several miniseries on PBS. Credit: Nick Higgins March 1, 2018  --  David Pogue Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.