Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue See the high-voltage lab in Denmark exploring how to safeguard turbines from electrical surges Wind turbines are lightning magnets--and strikes on these tall, spinning structures can cause significant damage. Blades explode; generators and control system electronics fry. To figure out how to safely disperse lightning, turbine manufacturers have turned to the Technical University of Denmark's High Voltage Lab. Using giant versions of standard electrical devices such as sphere gaps, transformers and capacitors, the facility can generate huge arcs of electricity--up to 800,000 volts AC. The equipment helps companies test how new turbine parts or mechanisms will respond to electrical surges out in the field. "Many high-voltage labs, they look like something from the 1960s," says Joachim Holboll, a professor and deputy head of the university's Center for Electric Power and Energy. "But we are doing necessary stuff in there with the newest equipment. Parts of this will always look a little old-fashioned, but that is simply because it works." The lab is also tackling a new problem: wind turbines are getting so tall that they frequently generate "up lightning." This type originates from the turbine's own electric field and leaps from the tip of a blade to meet a downward bolt. The direction of the bolt does not change the form of protections that the turbines need, Holboll says. But understanding these dynamics is critical to modeling the frequency of lightning strikes at wind farms, and the High Voltage Lab is working to verify theoretical and computational descriptions of this phenomenon. In 2015 wind power provided 42 percent of the electricity Denmark consumed. This article was originally published with the title "Surge Protector" in Scientific American  315, 6, 21 (December 2016) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1216-21 Karl J.P. Smith is a AAAS Mass Media Fellow and current PhD candidate in biophysics, computation, and structural biology at the University of Rochester. He is the typewriting storyteller behind the 10 cent story project and is the co-creator of the Bench Warmer's Podcast. 7 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 8 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 9 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.