Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue It's the latest veggie discovered to produce the protein best known for its role in blood Hemoglobin is best known as red blood cells' superstar protein--carrying oxygen and other gases on the erythrocytes as they zip throughout the bodies of nearly all vertebrates. Less well known is its presence in vegetables, including the sugar beet, in which Nelida Leiva-Eriksson recently discovered the protein while working on her doctoral thesis at Lund University in Sweden. In fact, many land plants--from barley to tomatoes--contain the protein, says Raul Arredondo-Peter, an expert on the evolution of plant hemoglobins, or leghemoglobins, at the Autonomous University of the State of Morelos in Mexico. "Hemoglobins are very ancient proteins," he notes. Scientists first discovered them in the bright-red nodules of soybean roots in 1939 but have yet to determine the proteins' role in plants in most cases. One popular idea is that hemoglobin binds with and delivers nitric oxide to cells, sending signals to regulate growth. Researchers are now investigating ways to leverage leghemoglobins. For example, Robert Hill, a plant biologist at the University of Manitoba, found that genetically engineering alfalfa to produce more of the proteins boosted the crop's survival rate during a flood from 20 to 80 percent. Plant hemoglobins might even serve as a blood substitute for humans someday--an idea that Arredondo-Peter says is conceivable but far off because they do not carry and release oxygen at the same rates as human hemoglobins. Or they could be exploited to trick our senses: food scientists at Stanford University are experimenting with plant hemoglobins as an ingredient in veggie burgers to make them taste more like bloody steaks. This article was originally published with the title "Bloody Beetroot" in Scientific American  312, 2, 23 (February 2015) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican0215-23 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.