Read Our Latest Issue Any element placed in a flame will change its color. Atoms are made of positively charged nuclei, about which negatively charged electrons move according to the laws of quantum mechanics. Quantum mechanics constrains them to appear in various distinct patterns, called orbitals. (Orbitals are a lot like planetary orbits, but blurrier, so that you're never quite sure just where the electrons are.) Left on their own, the electrons of an atom tend to relax into orbitals that leave the atom with the lowest possible energy--its ground state. Putting atoms into a flame, though, adds energy to the looser electrons farthest from the nucleus and pushes them into other orbitals. Eventually, these excited electrons drop back to where they ought to be, and in so doing, they release the energy they stored up as particles of light, called photons. The color of the light emitted depends on the energies of the photons emitted, which are in turn are determined by the energies required to move electrons from one orbital to another. A flame has lots of different energies existing within it all the time, and every so often, it gets lucky and has the right quantity present to push an electron from one orbital to another. When the electron drops back, it must release the same exact amount energy that it absorbed. Depending on the element you put in the flame, various different energies of photons (colors) will appear. Those colors are as distinctive to each element as fingerprints are to people. As an easy experiment to try at home, put a little table salt in a flame. You will see the same yellow glow as that of a sodium street light, in which the sodium electrons are kicked about by an electric current instead of a flame. Also, a bit of boric acid, which you can get at a pharmacy, will produce a lovely green flame due to the element boron. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.