Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Producing tunes instead of simply listening may make your body more efficient Chain-gang chants, military cadences, sea shanties: humans have long paired music making with intense physical exercise. Now research confirms the power of the combination: working out seems easier while producing music, according to a small study published in the . In the study, half of the participants made music while working out by using software that turned their movements into tunes. These exercisers exerted equal force while pumping iron as did people who merely listened to music during exercise. Yet the music makers used less oxygen during their routine--a measure of exertion--and they also felt they were working less hard than those who just listened. Music production may make exercise easier by activating so-called emotional motor control, posits Thomas Fritz, a postdoctoral fellow at the Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences in Leipzig and the study's lead researcher. Emotional motor control is responsible for spontaneous actions such as a genuine smile; deliberate motor control, in contrast, implements purposeful action (such as a fake smile). Activating this more efficient system, Fritz says, may be as easy as singing along or pumping iron in rhythm with the tunes in your exercise playlist. The brain activity for music and language is enormously complicated, and researchers are still trying to determine how the brain handles each process. Below is a sampling of what we do know: Areas in the ( ) help us learn the rules that govern language and music, such as those for syntax and harmony. Regions in the ( ) help us perceive and understand sounds, such as the meaning of words and melodies. The ( ) appears to have distinct music and language roles: the left auditory cortex is important for decoding and discriminating different aspects of speech, whereas the right auditory cortex is more involved in perceiving the pitch and frequency of sound. The ( ) processes rhythm, perhaps in subtly different ways, for both music and speech. And the ( ) is larger in the brains of musicians, suggesting that musicians require greater communication between the two hemispheres. This article was originally published with the title "Sing Your Way to Fitness" in SA Mind 25, 3, 17 (May 2014) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0514-17b is a resident in internal medicine at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. Her writing about science and medicine has appeared in a variety of publications, including The New York Times, Scientific American, Scientific American MIND, Discover magazine, and Reuters Health. 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.