Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue Owning stuffed animals as an adult says nothing about your mental health An adult who happens to own a robust collection of plush pals might make you uneasy. Past studies of adult psychiatric patients, after all, had found that owners of toy animals were more likely than others to have a personality disorder. Now you can relax, however: a study in the September 2012 found no such link in a nonclinical sample of typical adults. The researchers used physiological and self-reported measures of emotion regulation, including tests of psychological immaturity. Although "some people might automatically assume that an adult owning a toy animal is an indicator of the owner's immaturity," explains lead author Stuart Brody, professor of psychology at the University of the West of Scotland, "there was no association of adult toy animal ownership with emotion regulation and maturity." So go ahead and leave the toy animals on your bed the next time you have guests--but you may want to keep a copy of this article nearby. This article was originally published with the title "Keep the Teddy Bear" in SA Mind 23, 6, 11 (January 2013) doi:10.1038/scientificamericanmind0113-11b Tori Rodriguez is a journalist and psychotherapist based in Atlanta. Her writing has also appeared in the and . 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 14 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover new insights into neuroscience, human behavior and mental health with Scientific American Mind. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.