Read Our Latest Issue Read Our Latest Issue An extinct monster fish shows that, yes, evolution be that crazy After watching the movie , I had a deep sense of dread about going into the water--even if the water was in a swimming pool. A similar hydrophobia came over me while reading the riveting new book , by Bozeman, Mont.-based writer Susan Ewing. And this anxiety was even less rational than any arising from a viewing, as the book's subtitle makes clear: . That's right--the cartilaginous creature in question, now called , was extinct before dinosaurs ever existed. But in its time, was quite the sea monster. You know the scene in which the shark chomps away at Quint? It starts at the hunter's toes, bites away at his calves, rips into his knees, and so on. If had been working his way up Quint, it wouldn't have hit pay dirt until it got to the top of his inseam. Because its teeth weren't spread out along the long axis of its mouth, the way teeth are in great white sharks, humans and pretty much anything you can think of that has teeth. From Quint's point of view, the dental death coming at him would have looked like the cutting edge of a vertical buzz saw, like you'd see in an old lumber mill in a silent movie. Yikes. Before continuing, two things: the teeth of (from the Greek for "spiral" and "saw") were actually one humongous tooth, with dozens of visible crowns erupting from a single, continuous root. And to be taxonomically truthful, was not a shark. More on that bothersome bite ... I mean, bit ... of accuracy in a moment. The first fossil finds of and related species were made in the 19th century. They were shaped like the remains of ammonoids, spiral-shelled marine mollusks. But with studs along the spiral. Trained eyes recognized the fossils as, well, lots of different things. Definitely fishy. Some kind of weapon. But where did it go on the fish? "Scientists threw themselves into contortions keeping that tooth spiral out of the animal's mouth," Ewing told me. "They put it on its head, they put it curling up over its nose, they put it on its tail, they put it on its back. They wanted to put it everywhere except in the mouth." Because not even evolution could be that crazy, they thought. But, as Kramer said to Seinfeld, "Mother Nature's a mad scientist!" (Season Eight, Episode 19: "The Yada Yada.") Only in the past decade did researchers doing painstaking analysis of CT scans of fossils find evidence for the connective cartilage that nailed down the way the whorl was actually situated. "The thing that was so confusing about ," Ewing says, "was that that tooth whorl was a midline structure. So it was like a pizza cutter stuck in a quart of ice cream in the middle of the shark's lower jaw." But what could possibly chomp on with a vertical row of tooth-teeth? Well, its whorl's similarity in appearance to ammonoids was actually a clue: the shape made it good for snagging ammonoid flesh and then ripping them out of their shells. As Ewing writes, "The eminent French paleontologist Philippe Janvier likened the tooth whorl to a , a snail fork." But the size of a large dinner platter or even a bicycle wheel and embedded in a sharky beast at least 20 and perhaps 30 feet long. As to 's sharkitude: "Because of the way 's jaws were attached to its skull," Ewing explains, "it technically is not a true shark. And it's not in the lineage that became the true sharks ... the purists really don't like us to call a shark, but it's really hard not to ... it surely looked like a shark." And it led what would look to us like the epitome of a shark's life: an apex predator ruling the waters 270 million years before the first orthodontist adjusted an improper bite. This article was originally published with the title "What the Heck That Thing?" in Scientific American  317, 4, 90 (October 2017) doi:10.1038/scientificamerican1017-90 Steve Mirsky was the winner of a Twist contest in 1962, for which he received three crayons and three pieces of construction paper. It remains his most prestigious award. Credit: Nick Higgins 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 15 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.