Read Our Latest Issue "You are referring to the 'Uncertainty Principle,' deduced by Werner
Heisenberg early in the 20th century. Heisenberg realized that one
implication of quantum physics is that the act of measurement always
disturbs the object measured. The Uncertainty Principle applies to all
objects, but is only significant at the atomic or subatomic level. At
such scales, there are discernible limits to how certain we can be about
an object's position. "The physical reason behind this uncertainty is that measurement, by
its very nature, requires using some sort of energy--for example,
shining a light on the object to be measured. Light consists of discrete
units, or quanta, of energy known as photons. Shining a light on an
electron means bombarding it with photons, each of which has a big
effect on the electron." Heisenberg and his fellow quantum pioneers recognized that very
energetic photons will give a more accurate reading of the electron's
position, but they are also more disruptive. Hence, there is a tradeoff:
the more precisely we know an object's position at the time of
measurement, the less we know about its present whereabouts. This
uncertainty cannot be eliminated by designing better instruments; it is
inherent in the laws of quantum physics. Gordon then considers the second part of the question: "One
significant test of the Heisenberg principle can be thought of in
philosophical terms: Let's say we could measure both the position and
velocity of every sub-atomic particle with infinite accuracy. Then we
could measure the position and velocity of every particle in your body,
and predict the future positions and velocities of every particle in
your body. In other words, we could predict exactly what you are going
to do for the indefinite future; you would have a deterministic world
which precludes free will. The Uncertainty Principle is the physical
reason why free will is possible. Even with infinitely accurate
instruments, we cannot predict the future actions of sub-atomic
particles, and therefore we cannot predict the future of macroscopic
particles (like people) either." On a more practical level, the Uncertainty Principle explains
numerous real, observed physical effects, such as quantum tunneling.
Sometimes an electron will "tunnel" to a location where, according to
classical physics, it could never appear. This phenomenon forms the
basis of the scanning tunneling
microscope,
which allows scientists to map the location of individual atoms 6 hours ago  --  Robert Z. Pearlman and SPACE.com 7 hours ago  --  Nidhi Subbaraman and Nature magazine 8 hours ago  --  Jean Chemnick and E&E News 14 hours ago  --  Avi Loeb | 15 hours ago  --  Marla Broadfoot January 25, 2021  --  Chelsea Harvey and E&E News Discover world-changing science. Explore our digital archive back to 1845, including articles by more than 150 Nobel Prize winners. Follow us Scientific american arabic (c) 2021 Scientific American, a Division of Springer Nature America, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Support our award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology. Already a subscriber? Subscribers get more award-winning coverage of advances in science & technology.