In the wake of a four-month cyber-assault by Chinese hackers on the , during which multiple high-level reporters' passwords were stolen using sophisticated infiltration techniques, would like to once again affirm our commitment to providing the Chinese government with our employees' passwords and personal information with total and unquestioning cooperation. As a billion-dollar multinational conglomerate and fellow global superpower, shares a special affinity with the guiding principles of The People's Republic of China. In fact, we love China. Wealth is strength, and takes pride in aligning itself with the strong. In that spirit, we simply cannot overstate our commitment to compromising our journalistic integrity to accommodate China in any way possible. Here are 10 more names and passwords of Onion employees: Jessica Vaughn: Herbie12 Keith Jackson: 1274beechwood Samuel Jennings: gul@g@rchipellig0 Deondra Northington: felixx44 Camille Ryan: missTee54 Undine Hurley: april8two08 Ross Bergman: bugsy8908 Ira Heidenrich: 009siam Joyce Horn: silverstei22@ Brock Campbell: NeviL305 Do with them as you will. China boasts the world's biggest population, fastest-growing economy, and is the recipient of more foreign direct investment than any other country on the globe. aims to be on the right side of history, and towards that end, China is also welcome to our employees' social security numbers, home addresses, and medical and voting histories if ever they would like to see them. In closing, let us say that is delighted to act as a cog in China's massive propaganda machine. We have no qualms betraying the privacy and information-sharing laws of this nation, secure in our confidence of America's imminent collapse at the feet of the Eastern superpower. The age of cooperative trade and human rights accountability is long dead, and when our Chinese overlords colonize this crumbling land, will be glad to have been of some modest service. Also, we would like to address the following message directly to Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao: If there is anything else you need, dear friend, please just ask. Sincerely,