THE MALEBOLGE, NETHER REGIONS OF DARKNESS--Noting the incredible rate at which the community has grown, sources confirmed Thursday that Hell, the Endless Kingdom of Misery, is now a booming haven of gay culture. The Great Abyss, home of the damned, is reportedly inhabited by some 600 million condemned homosexual or transgender souls, a large proportion of its total population, and has by many accounts blossomed into an oasis of gay activism and community events. "I've only been here for a few months, but I've already fallen in love with it," said 49-year-old Daniel Edelson, adding that he has already befriended hundreds of fellow gay men and women in the accursed underworld, all of whom have welcomed him with open arms. "The streets of fire and brimstone are full of so many great cafes, restaurants, bakeries, independent bookstores, and of course plenty of gay bars and clubs. There's just so much to do." "My favorite place is this wonderful little promenade along the River Styx, where couples always take walks together on the weekends," continued Edelson. "I'd say this is easily the most LGBT-friendly place I've ever lived." According to sources, the deepest bowels of Hell have over the past several millennia developed a thriving gay community that is said to rival the likes of the New York City neighborhood of Chelsea, San Francisco's Castro District, Soho in London, and the Boystown section of Chicago. Along with its wide variety of gay-friendly businesses, the Underworld is also home to The 666, a sprawling, five-story gay nightclub that is reportedly the largest such establishment ever built. Reports confirmed The 666 is one of the most popular destinations in the Nine Circles, offering drag shows, multiple dance floors, six-headed go-go dancers, and live music. "It's just nice to finally live in a place where I don't feel like an outcast or an outsider," said Vanessa Aldridge, 38, stressing that she has faced absolutely no discrimination since she, like all homosexuals and gay sympathizers, was sentenced to an eternity in Lucifer's Den immediately upon her death. "There's no stigma attached to openly being who I am here. Everyone is respected and free to live the way they want to live." "It's really refreshing, frankly, to live in a place where nobody gives me any weird looks when I walk hand-in-hand with my girlfriend," Aldridge continued. "And all of the other eternally damned homosexuals down here feel the same. I thank Satan every day for welcoming me here." Hell has been widely celebrated by gay rights leaders for its far-reaching acceptance of alternative lifestyles, and residents told reporters it is incredibly common to see a rainbow flag hanging over various shop awnings, in car windows, or atop thrones of blood-soaked bones and rotting flesh. Additionally, the Inferno's Gay Pride Parade, held every July in the Second Circle, is noted for its extravagance and high attendance rate. Reports confirmed that, with thousands more homosexual souls flooding the Gates of Hell every day, the Chasm of Wickedness and Sin has truly become a sanctuary for gays and lesbians alike, a feeling proudly shared by a majority of heterosexual locals. "The gay community has really flourished here, and I have to say, they've been great for the place," said Nephirem the Malevolent, a 10,000-year-old, 70-foot-tall minotaur who has resided in hell since rising from the ashes of a smokeless flame. "At the end of the day, they're just like anyone else. Everyone has the right to express their love for whomever they want. They don't bother me in the slightest, and if anything, we in the Dark Lord's Army encourage any and all public displays of affection between same-sex couples." "I think it's great that they've carved out such a strong community for themselves here," added the horned beast of ceaseless death and destruction. "I'm all for it." In stark contrast to Hell's ongoing embrace of persecuted groups, sources confirmed that Heaven remains the most bigoted and intolerant place in the universe.