Hold onto your hats, everyone, because this is the Big One. From one of my better sources, who must obviously remain nameless, I've learned that there is going to be another movie! Plot details about are extremely sketchy, but from what I understand, and have to find a magic potion that was hidden by Boba Fett, , in order to save their home planet from . It's good to know that still has the magic touch. Stay tuned for more info. And may be with you and your loved ones! Only one short month until comes out on video? Can you stand it? My heart can hardly go on! It's been one year since the tragic death of , and she's still on the tip of everyone's tongues. The latest rumor making the rounds is that she isn't really dead, but that she and faked their deaths and cast aside all their worldly possessions in order to live the simple lives of chicken farmers. I pray this is true so they can finally have their peace-and love-together forever. I am happy to report that since my last column, no one has died! No one , at least. Let's keep it up, , and keep living to entertain! The phrase on everyone's lips these days seems to be and if you're anything like me (and you wouldn't be reading this if you weren't), you surely want to know why. Well, your old pal Jackie has done some snooping and found the answer. It turns out, there is a very erotic scene involving hair gel in a . Unfortunately, I wasn't able to find out which one. But you know what? If you go see them all, you'll get plenty of , and you'll come out a winner. There have been not one but two to hit the silver screen in the past year. Their names, in case you didn't catch them, were and . The ironic thing is, shortly after these movies came out, there was an actual political scandal in the . Another case of life imitating art? You decide, faithful reader. is refreshing and tasty, but no matter what kind I drink, it tends to give me a bad case of the belches. There's a New Year's resolution in there somewhere! Whatever happened to sexy 's TV show? We have so few quality comedies as it is without losing one more. Bring it back, please! While we're on the subject of comedies, let's talk dramas. Tops on my list is (or "PO5" as we call it). Those Bailey kids face hardship after hardship, but they always remain close as a family. I always call after each episode to tell her how much I love her, so the show has obviously done a lot to bring closer together. I can't wait to see who gets this year! I would like nothing more than to see spread across the Earth. If only we could convince all those to put down their bombs and love the ones they're with, then maybe, just maybe, that dream could come true. Well, that's it from my end. I'd like to stay longer, but I have to go dig up some more news from the so we can meet like this again. If you have any hot tips or questions, or just feel like saying hello, feel free to drop me a line care of this newspaper. All letters will be answered, I promise!