OSN shares its expert analysis on the teams that will come away with victory in this weekend's NFL week five games: - Starting quarterback Brian Hoyer will injure his knee and be forced to leave the game, leaving Brandon Weeden to step in and lead the Browns to a 37-24 victory over the Bills. Afterwards, Hoyer will begin wondering if an injury has, in a cruel twist of fate, cost him the starting job he gained when Weeden was ruled out with a thumb sprain in week two. Hoyer will lie awake in bed for hours later that night cutting his left arm, as it gives him a strange yet satisfying sense of control over at least a small portion of his life. - Expect Ray Rice to record at least two tackles this week. - The Saints are motivated, knowing that a loss would put them at risk of only taking the NFC South by three or four games. - New England left guard Logan Mankins is better than Cincinnati left guard Clint Boling. It's as simple as that. - After a disappointing 1-2 start to the season, expect the Pack to do what it takes to keep their playoff delusions alive. - Andrew Luck will lead the Colts to victory over the Seahawks, whose offense will struggle because Russell Wilson is too small to cut it as an NFL quarterback. - Despite being on the road, the crowd will make this feel like a home game for the Jags. - Tennessee hasn't yet allowed a turnover this season, so TE Delanie Walker sure as fuck better keep a tight grip on that 8-yard screen pass at 7:45 in the third quarter. - The Giants' road to 12-4 ends here. - The Panthers have so far allowed the fewest yards in the league, but it's looking increasingly unlikely that they'll be allowed to play the Giants every week. - Despite Denver's outright dominance this season, Dallas should be able to keep it close throughout their first drive. - Texans WRs will have their hands full trying to break up Matt Schaub's passes. - This has the potential to be the greatest NFL game ever broadcast at midnight on a Sunday. - Geno Smith's struggles with turnovers will continue as the Jets somehow fall backwards into another fucking win.