I know at times I can come off a bit caustic and abrasive. For years, I had no idea where these destructive feelings and behaviors came from, but as I get older, I'm starting to realize it all stems from my youth. You see, when I was growing up, still an innocent and impressible bottle of laundry detergent, my dad could be one mean son of a bitch. Looking back, I begin to see the reason I'm so tough on stains is that my father was tough on me. Sure, it's no excuse, but we're all to some extent a product of our upbringing, and my childhood was pretty rough. It wasn't unusual for Dad to come home in a bad mood, shoot a furious look in my direction, and then throw me in the washer--and believe me, he didn't bother with the fabric softener, either. He would fly off the handle about the most inconsequential stuff, and that's why, decades later, I lose my shit every time I see a coffee splatter on a pair of slacks. It's clear to me now that the way I use my super-concentrated stain-fighting formula to treat soiled garments is far too harsh. For that, I apologize. Deep down, it's not the stains I'm angry with; it's everything I went through with my old man. I come down hard on stains because there's still a part of me that's trying to prove my dad was wrong when he told me I'd never be able to cut through dirt the way the leading brands do. As a result, I will relentlessly attack grease and mud with the power of three advanced stain removers, even in situations that really only call for one. I feel absolutely terrible about the times I've taken things too far, completely snapping and going off on a simple grass stain with the full strength of my oxy-boosted scrubbing action. Only when it's too late do I come to my senses and see I've left a faded discoloration on a pant leg. Well, that's on me, friends. My dad may have taken out his frustrations on me, but that doesn't give me the right to take out mine on ground-in chocolate sauce, hitting it so hard that by the time I'm finished, there's nothing left but a fresh, long-lasting scent. I'm really lashing out at my father, of course. It's a wash cycle of abuse. I've tried letting little smudges go here and there, but it's still very hard for me. About a year ago, I caught myself completely flipping out over a drop of marinara on an old sweatshirt and thought, "Oh God, what am I doing? This is exactly what Dad did to me." I need to recognize that sometimes accidents happen. People are going to knock over a glass of orange juice here and there, and it's not the end of the world. But as much as I try to escape my upbringing, I can't help but keep whites looking their whitest and colors looking their brightest. It's the only life I've known, after all. When I was young, no ever talked about being hypoallergenic and not leaving behind residues that can irritate sensitive skin. I have to accept that no matter how much I work on myself, I'll probably never be 100 percent free and clear of all perfumes, dyes, and brighteners. I have to try, though. I have to set an example. Because in the end, I'm not sure what I'd do with myself if I passed my dysfunctional behaviors down to my own pods.