Texaco singing sensation wows 'em the old-fashioned way--bilingually! See, "Texaco" refers to the culture of the Texas-Mexico border area, which spices up our lives with spicy food and spicy music. (Though says I have to take it easy on the spicy food.) Now, on top of her hit ABC show about the teenage witch, Selena's joining other dead superstars like , , and as the subject of a big-budget Hollywood motion picture. hears that it's going to be a good, wholesome movie about the triumph of the spirit, except for the part where she gets killed by some wacko fan. I guess that's not very triumphant, but there are plenty of songs. Selena has won a new fan in Jackie Harvey, that's for sure. and : Separated at birth? No, they probably just share the same last name. Weird to think about, though, don't you think? The summer sure is heating up with movies about seismic activity! Yes, Americans are going loco for lava, and I'm here to keep you up to date on them. The latest is a movie called , directed by none other than the master of disaster . The movie stars Motley Crue guitarist and , not to mention a whole mess of magma! The slogan is "Adios To The Coast," because the ensuing destruction wipes out . I won't say which one, though, because that would give away the surprise. The stage certainly seems set for Tommy to come rushing in to save the day, proving to all that man cannot be bested by tornados, volcanos, tidal waves or . Speaking of Ellen, kudos to Miss DeGeneres, a class act if ever there was one. Who she chooses to hug and kiss in the privacy of her own bedroom Got that, you ? of Ashtabula, OH, writes in wanting to know what ever happened to . You know, Edele, I'm not sure! That was a good question. Golf has never been more exciting than it's been since started playing. I mean, he's not doing anything different, besides being better, but there's just some kind of energy surrounding him. It's like some kind of super-likable aura that he carries which says, "Hey, I'm a nice black golfer." You sure are, Tiger. Yep, it looks like I'll have to put and on the back burner in favor of the young Mr. Woods as my new favorite . What's the deal with ? I don't think they're very funny, like in the old days, when you had and , which is still around but it doesn't have the same oomph. A moment of silence for columnist , who, like Selena, recently passed away. (Only he wasn't shot to death.) I don't know that I've ever read anything of his, but as a fellow journalist on the front lines, I know how hard it can be. So, to this fallen comrade, a toast. Here's to you, the late Mr. Royko. Boy, sure is something, isn't she? The woman just keeps getting better. I like my gossip the same way I like my pancakes: so sweet and hot they stick to your ribs. Well, here's a sweet, smokin' flapjack for you, faithful readers: According to my sources, (my ninth favorite movie) co-stars and have been seen out and about around Tinseltown with each other. The famed Rat Packers have taken in shows, had dinner (What? Not "Breakfast"?), and just generally enjoyed each other's company. Could there be a bit of romance for these two troubled teens? A juicy tidbit like that certainly merits some follow-up, so you can be sure that Jackie Harvey will keep you posted! Can we talk? , hot on the comeback trail, will be doing a few wild stunts at Caesar's Palace in Las Vegas May 20, including jumping the Grand Canyon and . Not since her famous hang-gliding stunt of 1989 has she put her all into a stunt to make the public say, "Huh!" Joan is still quite the consummate showperson, and she certainly knows how to wow 'em. Well, I gotta put that ear back to the grapevine, but I just wanted to let you know that my video pick of the week is Those characters crack me up! Well, until next time, I'll see you on the boardwalk... the boardwalk of celebrities!