Few marketing campaign experiences have earned a place in my heart quite like the adrenaline-charged series of ads for the first film. So when I read on message boards last year that they were planning to promote a third movie, I was understandably fired up. At first, I didn't let myself believe all the rumors, as the possibility of an all-new sequel of bus posters seemed almost too good to be true. But then, in a commercial during the Super Bowl, I finally had the proof I'd been longing for: was indeed going to be advertised. And when I found out they were bringing back the media team behind the original, with Robert Sutker signed on as publicity director and Howard Schwartzman reprising his role as special press agent, I was thrilled. After the advertising debacle, this gave me new hope. For me, there's nothing quite like watching publicized on a giant billboard. It's cheesy to say, but I get so into it, I actually feel like I'm part of the ad. The whole thing kind of takes me back to my childhood, when my parents would bring me to our local fast-food restaurant to see the latest movie tie-in. Not since the marketing campaign of the original have I been this cautiously enthusiastic about the promotion of a movie. If the pre-film hype lives up to the pre-pre-film hype, could shape up to be the merchandising event of the summer. Have you seen 's teaser trailer? The geek in me simply cannot wait for the full-length version to be released. No one is rooting for these talented sales artists to hit it out of the park with this campaign more than I am. After all, with a promotional budget of over $40 million, there's no reason why can't be a non-stop media blitz, complete with action-figure-packed licensing agreements and one-of-a-kind publicity stunts. If the buzz is true, and these guys are truly getting back to the basics of marketing, has a great chance of a being an unforgettable roller-coaster thrill ride at my local theme park in two to four years. Still, I have my concerns. While I would like this franchise's latest marketing installment to have its share of unpredictable promotional twists and surprises, as a true publicity fan, I'd be disappointed if some of the classic advertising elements I've come to love, such as magazine articles, daytime talk-show appearances and breakfast-cereal tie-ins, were abandoned. Because honestly, after the ad nightmare, it's my duty to be wary. Forgetting the golden opportunities they totally missed out on (no peel-and-win games? Hello!), what those inexperienced ad-school hacks threw together was misguided at best. I've never headed an ad campaign, but even I know better than to use the same exact font on your subway posters as another big promotion event like . Plus, some of the trailer announcer lines were corny, and the whole campaign lacked drinking-cup character development. But I am a fan first and critic second. Who knows-- 's marketing campaign might prove so great that I'll sit through the movie.