Terrorism has hit these shores, and I for one am ready to put my foot down and say enough! I don't care if I become a as a result of my stance. I think this is the time for action, not silence. So I've put an on my car, one on my mailbox, and one on my dog. Take that, ! Does Osama have any idea just how many millions of Americans strongly support America? If he ever came here and saw all the flags on every street, he'd quickly find out. Then he'd go running back to wherever it is he came from! And, hey, just how is that name spelled, anyway? I've seen Osama and Ossama and Usama. Here's a suggestion for the media: Spell it . I don't know about you, but I must have eaten my weight in over the past month or so. All this terrorism and war has really put a damper on the . They were scheduled twice and canceled twice. But in true American fashion, the Emmy people have decided that the show must go on! And so it will, sometime in late November, I think. In case you want one person's opinion on what to expect, assuming they happen (or haven't already happened), take out your scorecards and get ready for ! ? Let's look at the nominees. They are , , , , and . Well, before Sept. 11, I would've said , if only for their bold choice of going widescreen. However, I think nowadays the nation needs the healing, calming influence of our other president, . I predict the academy will keep this in mind and give Commander-In-Chief Bartlett the big gold one. is okay, but it has a bit too much harsh language for me to endorse it. For , look no further than . I'm pretty sure she's been nominated. And for ? Please! It could only be from . I picked her because a girl in my high school had the same name, and she was pretty nice. Well, that wasn't the only reason, but it was a pretty big factor. And if this isn't 's year for , I may stop watching the Emmys altogether. (Aw, who am I kidding? Emmy, I'd never turn you away!) That's all the advice I feel comfortable giving you, because for all I know, you might be in an against me! Have you heard about this ? I understand it was a big thing for a while after the tragedy. Otherwise, why would have run an article about it? I guess it makes sense that people would do that. After all, in the words of , if you can't be with the one you love in times of international terrorism, love the one you're with. I'm just wild about Harry! , that is! Okay, so I've never read any of the books, and I haven't seen the movie. But there's so much hullabaloo surrounding it all, I'm quite certain that if I had read the books or seen the movie, I'd be wild enough about Harry for that clever play on words to be true. It looks like those are really taking a whomping from those old-fashioned . After and the squared off on and racy bartendress was booted off , I lost all interest. Who's going to win ? I am... because I'm not watching! ' new album is due out soon, and rumor has it we can look forward to a from the young singing sensation! I don't know about you, but I can't wait to see what she's got in store for us! You know how the is abbreviated ? Well, I was surprised to find out that the fire department is the , not the . Funny how that works. has a new movie out. It's called , and the verdict is... it's K-OK! I saw it over the weekend, and Spacey really delivers, looking up at the stars in wide-eyed wonderment. He also smiles a lot, in this really wise way that tells you that he understands the human spirit. It's great to see somebody doing that sort of thing now that has disappeared off the face of the Earth. Anyway, I usually use my last paragraph, or as we call it in the biz, to give you a teaser for my next column. Instead, I'm using it to make an urgent plea to check out a show on . They could really use your support. Hey, for $115 plus service charge, where else can you see stars like and whoop it up in ? Or in ? Nowhere except New York City! So if you're in the area, go see a show. It's the most patriotic thing you can do short of enlisting in the armed services. And the could still use your blood! Please donate now if you haven't already. I'd do it myself, but I faint at the sight of a needle. Well, that's it for now. So keep 'em waving, and , and . And remember: America is still number one for ringing freedom and waving wheat fields and fruited plains and pie. Not just apple, but every kind of pie! See you next time... on the outside!