Happiest of new years to everyone! I hope all of you had a good New Year's Eve and are enjoying this exciting time in human history, the first February of the new millennium! Someday, hundreds of years from now, will look back on this heady time, when each day in February was the first one of its kind for this new thousand-year period. As for me, I'm doing lots of celebrating, but I can't really get into it right now because we have a ton of gossip to go over. Let's get things rolling. As I noted in my last column, is sweeping the nation! And in the time since, even more have sprung up! In addition to the show that started it all, ABC's , and Fox's , there's now NBC's and . I'm not sure which is the best show, but as far as hosts go, I'll take every time... Make chit chat, read cue cards, cut to commercials-Chuck can do it all. Can you believe it? The 29th annual Juno Awards are almost here! March 12 is the night the whole world will be watching as come out to shine. And what stars they are! Nominees this year include , , , , and . Best Single promises to be a hard-fought category, with 's "Hello Time Bomb" duking it out against 's "Heaven Coming Down." And how about that Best Male Artist category? Will it be , , or ? Who knows, but with that sort of competition, you'd better believe I'll be glued to CBC to find out! I don't know why it's happening now, but of fame seems to be enjoying a resurgence in popularity. Instead of being on TV, though, he's the star of his own series of bestselling children's books. Now I've seen everything! Hey, I don't care whether he's fighting the good fight in Korea or having magical adventures with his imaginary wizard pals, I love that gruff straight-shooter with a heart of gold! Now, I feel strongly that that little boy should go live with his father, but I have to say, is pretty cute. Super Bowl? More like ! Did you see that thing? The whole game, the two teams were just going up and down the field and never scoring. And who were those teams, anyway? I never heard of either of them! Actually, the biggest news to come out of that not-so-Super Bowl was buried in one of the commercials. Are you ready? You might want to sit down... is walking again! I forget the name of the investment company that cured him, but they did it! News like this you shouldn't have to see on a TV ad. It should be blasting as the biggest headline of every front page in America! Shame on the media for letting this one slip by. Oh, and kudos to Christopher Reeve, a truly super man. If anyone deserves , it's you, Mr. Reeve. Did you see on the American Music Awards? He tore up the stage with that smash-hit of his, I tell you, he's still got it after all these months! was recently busted at a Honolulu airport. From the looks of what security guards found in her purse, the superstar songbird thinks marijuana is " ." I say Whitney needs to ditch before he gets her into even deeper trouble. Do the right thing, Whitney: Divorce Bobby and marry , so we can all enjoy years of fabulous magazine photos of what would surely be America's most glamorous celebrity couple. Hey, do any of you own a ? I'm in the market for a new car, and I've been considering getting one of those. Not only are they economical; they're sporty and svelte! Just the thing for a single guy on the move, no? On a sadder note, the nation mourns the loss of two of our greatest acting treasures. Of course, I am talking about and Do you know what would have been great? If these two power hitters could have teamed up to form a TV crime-fighting duo. It could have been called because those two had both, and then some. No word yet on those rumors of joining the cast of  magazine recently revealed the parentage of singer 's baby! Of course, she was the mother, but did you know that the father was not her husband, but corpulent drug sack ? I don't know. I guess her husband must have been sterile. I'm just glad they came up with a solution that benefited everyone: Melissa Etheridge got a baby and David Crosby got to have sex. Speaking of fatherhood, it seems to be all the rage right now. Not only are and expecting, is a father... at 80! If anyone deserves a baby, it's a man who doesn't have much time left in this world. Have you seen this amazing new show ? I haven't, either. And, to sign off, I would like to offer my heartfelt get-well wishes to , who is temporarily out of commission following heart surgery. I know how hard it can be. I had my appendix out last year, and I was scared and lonely in the hospital. So, Dave, if you need someone to talk to, I've given instructions to to pass along my number if you call. Remember, folks: If we don't take care of our stars, who will? Well, that's all for now, . Until next time, I'll see you on the big silver screen!