Are you sitting down? I've just received some very, very bad news. A reliable source tells me that are preparing to strike, meaning no movie magic in 2001! At first, I thought this was some kind of sick joke, but apparently it's true. Come on, Tinseltown, surely there must be some way for you to settle your differences without resorting to measures that would devastate the rest of us. I was all set to spend next year at my local dodecaplex, enjoying the big-screen thrills of , , and whatever had in store. Now what will I do? Model-actress , star of , is now millionaire-millionaire Anna Nicole Smith! For those of you Harveyheads who haven't been following the story of this buxom blonde bombshell as closely as I have, let me fill you in. Smith was a stripper, and then she changed her name and posed naked in . Then she married a (the real kind, not the TV kind) who died, and he didn't leave her anything! Then she sued the dead millionaire's son and got $500 million. It's like a Hollywood fairy tale come to life! You go, girl! I've got a bottle of orange marinade that's been in my refrigerator for almost a year. Do you suppose it's still good? I just saw last night, and all I can say is, "Wow!" Actually, that's not all I can say. I can also say, "Talk about your slam-bang action!" Don't let anyone say that can't act, because she was dead on the money as The Red-Haired Angel. And lovely ? She was every bit as good in her role as The Asian Angel. But do you know who the real star was? as the Blonde Angel. Of all the sexy angels, she was the sexiest. Talk about your all-around star power: Diaz, Ling, Barrymore, ... If this movie were a weapon, it'd be ! There's a lot of craziness going on in the Middle East right now. The new TV season is here, so it's time for Jackie Harvey's New Season Scorecard! I was a little hesitant about , since TV shows adapted from movies are never that good. ( , anyone?) But this really delivers the thrills. So does , the show about the hard-boiled New York reporter who doesn't just write the stories, he makes them. The jury's out, though, on . I love , and there were plenty of laughs, but I didn't think the premise was very realistic. Also boasting star power and laughs is . Geena plays a woman named Geena, but not Geena Davis, and she has some sort of job and is married to a single dad after only two dates! You can see the comic potential there. There are plenty more that I haven't seen yet, but I'll try to catch them. My verdict? You -r believe, the new television -son is a -ic hit! I have a little time on my hands, so I've decided to look for a hobby. I've got it narrowed down to two choices: collecting postcards or photography. A few months back, I broke the story that star and were calling it splits. Well, I just caught wind of the reason behind the breakup. My sources tell me that Ryan has been playing footsie with Australian superstar ! Now, while I am 1,000 percent behind the institution of marriage, part of me is hoping that this new romance will add some zest to the forthcoming . Here's to hope! You know what's coming up in just a few weeks? ! Now, at first I had my doubts. I grew up loving the book and the faithful cartoon rendition. The more I thought about it, the better I felt. After all, how can you go wrong with at the helm? Did you know that 90 percent of all dust is really ? That rates pretty high on the Jackie Harvey Ick-O-Meter. In the spirit of the movie (which I haven't seen yet, but I'm dying to!), I am going to help three people, who will help three people, who will help three people so we can live in a better world. So, if you need help moving or want a ride somewhere, let me know. I'd be happy to pay it forward. Hey, whatever happened to ? It used to be the hugest thing, but I haven't heard anyone mention it in a long time. I guess everybody's too busy listening to all that terrific music being made by and . Well, I'm pretty much out of space for right now, but I've got some stuff up my sleeve next week. Since you asked, here's a little teaser: Wedding bells for ? Wedding bells for ? Wedding bells for ? Plus, in the where-are-they-now file, . All that and plenty more! In the meantime, pop yourself a bowl of popcorn, wrap that blanket around yourself, and soak in the Hollywood magic!