CAIRO--Citing thousands of years of grueling wear and tear on its famed pyramids, the Egyptian government recalled the Jewish people yesterday. The Jews, though currently spread throughout the world in a global Diaspora, are in the process of returning to Egypt to repair damages the Pyramids have suffered over the last 4,000 years. "They did a superb job the first time around, and we expect the same level of high-quality craftsmanship now," said Egyptian Minister of Tourism Fekesh Sabah, a top assistant to the Pharaoh. "They are a highly skilled people." The Jews were urged to return by a forceful letter sent to every Jewish household in the world. The letter strongly suggested they return, if they knew what was good for them. "The language of the letter seemed very sincere and forthright," Detroit marketing analyst Roger Fine said. "It just came off like we really should go back." Fine is one of millions of Jews, or "Hebrewites," who hastily quit his job, sold all his worldly possessions, and boarded one of the thousands of charter jets heading to Cairo International Airport. Jews are massing in the Egyptian capital, where they are being sent out in labor teams of 600 to replace stones, repair crumbling walls and reinstall statuary to the sun god Ra. They will do this not only for the rest of their lives, but also for the lives of their children and their children's children. "This is very hard work," said Jeffrey Sonnenfeld, an accountant from Cherry Hill, NJ. "I do not enjoy this at all." Added Rachel Cohen of Los Angeles: "My job as a record label publicist has very little to do with hauling enormous, 40-ton sandstone slabs through the desert." To repair the pyramids, the Jews will employ many of the same effective building techniques used during their first construction, including the lever and the pulley. "We have found that utilizing these techniques makes lifting the rocks up the 75-degree incline that much easier," Project Coordinator Nassar Achbad said. "Doing it the old way, by hand alone, it would take over 500 years to complete the work. Now, it won't take more than two or three centuries, if that." The Jews first built the pyramids between 2686 and 2181 B.C. under enslavement by numerous pharaohs. Only after Moses, a prophet of the lord Yahweh, rose up to lead them were they able to escape into the desert and relocate to the promised land of Israel. According to published reports, the Jews spent 40 years in the desert subsisting on an unleavened bread product and water, which was found by smashing magical scepters into rocks. Once again, the Jewish people are hoping for a prophet to rise up from among the people and lead them back to freedom. This prophet may be Florida lawyer Barry Stern, whose successful defense firm in Fort Lauderdale has freed many white and blue collar workers from potential incarceration. "The climate here is similar to Florida, a dry heat which is more bearable than the hu-midity of say, the Ama-zon rainforest. But I don't enjoy be-ing whipped by my overseers," Stern said. "If this continues, litigation may be pending." Though they do not fear legal recourse, Egyp-tian officials are hopeful that the Jews won't pull out in a similar manner as last time, visiting a host of deadly plagues on the Egyptian people. This culminated in the parting of the Red Sea, which  drowned over half the Egyptian army. Said Sabah: "I hope they don't do that again."