My name is Erwin Caswell, and my hobby is terrorizing young children. Why do I do such a thing? One reason and one only: It makes me feel like a big man. It all started in first or second grade, I suppose. I was big for my age, even then. I loved to beat up younger, smaller kids and take their money, their candy, whatever. Often, the other kids would say things like, "Oh, I bet you feel like a big tough guy, beating up some kindergartener." And mister, they hit the nail on the head! That was exactly how I felt! Throughout my teen years, I loved to hide behind trees when smaller kids came walking up the street; then I'd leap out and scream at the top of my lungs. You wouldn't believe how big that made me feel. I'd spread my arms out like a huge attacking bear, and they'd shrink and cower like tiny, helpless kittens. You'd have thought I was 20 times their size! Whenever I did that, people would say to me, "Feel like a big man now?" You got that right, Chucky! Certainly a lot bigger than the little children I terrified. Even today, I hear the same criticisms. At my cousin's wedding, when the flower girl came down the aisle, I leapt into her path, grabbed her bouquet and stomped on it, laughing. And all through the reception, people were saying to me, "What, do you think you're a big man for picking on some little flower girl?" Well, duh! Thanks for pointing out the obvious! That girl couldn't have been more than 5-I was six times as big as her. Compared to her, I was a huge monster. How could I feel big? Sometimes people say, "Why don't you pick on someone your own size?" No, I think not. Someone my size would be more risky. I could really get hurt. A person my own size might work out a lot and might be able to pummel me with his sinewy muscles. He would likely send me sprawling into the corner with just one punch. Then how big would I feel? Not very. No, I think I'll stick with the current plan-picking on children who are much, much smaller. Pretty soon, the Christmas season will be upon us. There's something I've always wanted to do: attend a local elementary-school Christmas pageant and heckle the performers, making them all cry. I think that would be great.