I always thought that and had the wedding of the century, what with that bridal train that could have slept five and all the guests. And the ! But despite their beautiful wedding, Chuck and Di got , and then Diana died , so I guess that wasn't really the wedding of the century, after all. The real wedding-of-the-century title now has to go to and ! Could you imagine a better couple than the and the ? Now, details have been sketchy, but from what I could gather, they wore stunning outfits fit for a queen and king. They had an orchestra play a rendition of that Streisand classic "What Kind Of Fool?" (originally a duet with ). And, after their vows, they smashed wine glasses with their feet. (I'm assuming because they're .) What I would have given to have attended this . Best wishes to you, Babs and James! May your union last as long as ! On a sadder note, former star of and one time vice-presidential candidate passed away recently. Bentsen, 97, had been in great spirits right up until the end, as evidenced by his final theatrical turn in the new comedy that will have you in stitches, He gave us so much--laughter, hopes, dreams, and the thrill of the . He was like another dead man in that respect, and that man is . Hey! It's almost again, and you know what that means... more of the famous ! Rumor has it that may not be returning to the CBS smash hit in the fall. Now, may get all the accolades and ink as the show's star, but, if you ask me, it's Cheech who's the heart and soul of and the key to its super success. Stay, Cheech, stay! Call me a sucker, but I just saw the new , and I am positively ape over it! Maybe it's the , or maybe it's 's turn as Jane (pretty funny name coincidence, if you ask me) that had me spinning. Or, perhaps it was the thrilling adrenaline rush that only a movie can provide. Whatever the case, I'd say you should keep your eye on this one. It has written all over it. Speaking of blockbusters, remember last summer, when it was all on the silver screen? Well, this year, it's all ! In two movies this summer, the Earth is in danger of being destroyed by asteroids. In the first, , the president sends people underground so he can more effectively fight the menace of the asteroid. I haven't heard much about the second one, but I have no doubt that it's every bit as "smashing" as the first! I think I've had just about enough of this whole thing. Haven't you? Back to the most important topic of the week, I'd like to share with you a poem I wrote for the happy couple: I hope they see this column or get the copy of the poem that I mailed them. Only a couple like Brolin and Babs could inspire yours truly to create poetry. There's paper plates, and then there's -brand paper plates... big, durable and easy on the eyes. Current Hollywood hot ticket and "hunk-tor" extraordinaire has been seen about town (that town being , of course) boasting loudly about his new car. Well, when I heard this, I had to track down some more information for all my faithful Harveyheads, and, after hitting up some of my more reliable sources, I was able to find out that he purchased a . Not only that, he attends those meetings where everyone talks about their cars. Apparently, no one loves his car more than Damon, who likes to brag about how he drove it to the store, the , even to have a cut inspected (no big deal, in case you were wondering). Now you know the truth behind Matt Damon: Saturn owner. I don't want to sound like a prude, but I think we have to seriously check our moral compass when one of our nation's most beloved heroes is a goof-off named . "Butt-head"? More like head if you ask me. Guess who has been named ? Why, it's none other than ! Yep, her sharp tongue and fast wit have netted her a "Funny," and I can't think of anyone more deserving. Congrats, ! Well, that does it for this week's gossip, folks. I'm sure there's more out there, but, as they say, too much of a good thing can be bad for you. I'll just whet your appetite for future dish with this juicy tidbit: I have it on good authority that a certain is dating a ! Who is it? You'll just have to wait until next time to find out! Until then, remember that are very special to me.