WASHINGTON--Calling the late-night horror film host well-suited for the job "and then some," Vice President Joe Biden offered Elvira, Mistress of the Dark, an entry-level position within the U.S. Office of Personnel Management, White House sources confirmed Thursday. Biden, who first saw the buxom temptress in a tight, revealing black dress on a Los Angeles television station in 1982, said he immediately "got rock hard" and realized Elvira had the necessary assets to go "real far," and made it his personal mission to find the Mistress of the Dark a plum position in D.C. "Elvira's hot to trot, so as soon as I was clued in to something opening up over at OPM, I got my main man [Inspector General Patrick E.] McFarland on the horn and called in a favor," said Biden, explaining that McFarland owed him big-time after the six-term Delaware senator took one for the team and gave the agency's acting director, Beth Cobert, a "wild ride" at a recent gala event. "They want her to take some bullshit technical aptitude test first, but I'll snag all the answers beforehand, so she's gonna ace it." "Besides, it ain't rocket science," Biden continued. "All she's gotta do is show up to a few meetings in that little low-cut black number of hers and she's golden." The vice president assured reporters that Elvira was more than qualified for the appointment, noting that the Mistress of the Dark had an impressive resume of prior work experience that included starring roles in straight-to-VHS horror movies and Coors Light commercials, as well as appearances at numerous regional boat shows. Biden also conceded that the job mostly entailed "a bunch of pointless bureaucratic crap." Speaking at length about how Elvira had "kept the goods in mint condition," the 72-year-old reportedly became visibly emotional while describing how the shapely horror host's cleavage had captured the hearts and minds of a generation of Americans. "I usually don't go in for that spooky shit, but that vampire has quite the rack," said Biden, adding that the dark-haired seductress has been a regular fixture in his "spank bank" for four decades. "Let's just say I've made real good use of my copy of her cover." "Back in the day, I used to check every single month to see if she was in there," added the vice president. Biden, who vowed to frequently check in with Elvira to ensure she received everything she desired, told reporters that the "uptight puds" down at OPM should be thanking Diamond Joe for recruiting such a stacked little honey to roam the halls of 1900 E Street. "This is a real cushy position," said Biden, adding that Elvira would probably just sit at a desk all day doing nothing but looking "smoking hot." "If any of those bean counters hassle Elvira or make her do work, there will be hell to pay." "It should be a lot like my gig," continued Biden. "All you really have to do is show up and they give you a paycheck each week."