DUBAI--Calling it the most ambitious project of its kind ever undertaken, officials from Dubai's Department of Economic Development announced Tuesday the emirate's plans to construct the world's largest human rights violation. Set to begin later this month, the project, dubbed Saqr Ganzeer, or "Chained Falcon," will reportedly take as long as 10 years to complete and make use of more than 250,000 foreign workers from the Indian subcontinent and other parts of Asia. It is expected to easily surpass all previous record holders, towering over every other abuse of rights in the wealthy Middle Eastern city. "With this bold new endeavor, we will create the biggest deprivation of basic human dignity the world has ever seen," said DED deputy director Jamal Al Falasi, who according to reports was selected to oversee the project after successfully managing several of Dubai's smaller violations of individuals' freedoms. "None of the others will even come close. Once completed, it will be recognized everywhere as a symbol of Dubai and everything our city stands for." "It really is humbling to be part of an undertaking this historic in scope." Emirati sources expressed confidence that before it is even finished, Saqr Ganzeer will generate a "huge splash" in the international community, easily overshadowing human rights offenses in countries like Sudan, North Korea, Syria, China, and the Democratic Republic of Congo, which they said will look miniscule in comparison. International observers agreed that as soon as the project is underway, Dubai's claim to the title of world's greatest human rights infringement will likely be measured and officially certified by several independent organizations. Bangladeshi laborer Tajuddin Rahman, one of tens of thousands who was lured to the emirate for the monumental exploitation of fundamental liberties, told reporters that while he knows it won't be easy toiling for countless hours on the project, he hopes his family back home will be proud of his sacrifice. "It really is humbling to be part of an undertaking this historic in scope," said Rahman, who explained he's eager to begin working on the project, as he needs to start funneling all his wages to his labor contractor for the next several years to pay back the cost of funding his travel to the UAE. "It will take many years to complete, so I realize I might not be around long enough to see it finished." "I only hope that when this is done, people will take notice," he added.