NEW YORK--Noting that it has had thousands of years to develop a more agreeable option, humankind expressed bewilderment this week that it has yet to devise a better alternative to governing itself than always letting power-hungry assholes run everything, sources worldwide reported. Individuals in every country on earth voiced their frustration that, in spite of generations of mistreatment, neglect, and abuse they have suffered at the hands of those in positions of authority, they continue to allow control over the world's governments, businesses, and virtually every other type of organization and social group to fall to the most megalomaniacal pricks among them. "We've all seen what this system leads to, so you'd think that by now, someone, somewhere would have sat down and thought up another way to keep our societies functioning without giving all the power to arrogant, amoral dicks whose only concern is improving their own status," said Mumbai software designer Ankan Rao, one of 7.1 billion humans who conveyed continued surprise that their species has so far proven incapable of formulating a method of governance that was even slightly more tolerable. "Everybody dislikes the people in charge and everybody knows they're only serving their own personal agendas at the expense of everyone else, but we just keep allowing these jerks to make our decisions time and time again. And it's not just here--it's everywhere in the world." "Boy, maybe we shouldn't do that anymore," Rao added. "Anyone have any better ideas?" Speaking with reporters, citizens across the planet unanimously expressed their bafflement at the consistency with which they either formally or informally select corrupt and self-obsessed sacks of shit for leadership roles in all facets of life, including positions atop corporate boards, judicial and legislative bodies, religious institutions, parent-teacher associations, the military, intramural softball teams, and international and national professional associations, as well as groups of friends deciding where to eat. In addition, sources offered countless examples of the counterproductive and perplexing practice of entrusting power to the world's least scrupulous individuals, ranging in scale from a domineering dictator who plunges his country into civil war in order to consolidate his power, to a Foot Locker shift manager who forces his subordinates to close up without him so that he can go home early. Moreover, everyone across the planet acknowledged that the tradition of allowing an exploitative asshole to take charge of a given situation has been the principal system for group decision-making from the earliest formation of tribal societies to the present day, an admission that caused each member of the human race to either emit an exasperated sigh, shake his or her head, or mutter a profanity. "My old boss, my sorority president, my congressional representative, my current boss--they've all been soulless, backstabbing dickheads whose only concern is getting what they want," said administrative assistant Sheryl Gittens of Fort Worth, TX, who went on to list the bully back in her seventh grade class, her homeowners association president, and the coordinator of her Bible study group among the legions of selfish jagoffs who have inexplicably been granted commanding roles by the acquiescent masses. "What's even more annoying is that we essentially reward these people for only thinking of themselves and repeatedly screwing us over. If you stop and think about it, that's pretty messed up." "Jesus," she continued. "What the hell's wrong with us?" Given the prevalence throughout history of compassionless, two-faced leaders whose lust for control and inflated self-importance have led to disastrous results for society at large, many individuals questioned if, going forward, they should instead try giving power to someone other than a greedy, self-serving bastard. "Maybe we should try letting a kind, responsible person run things for a change," Cairo resident Nathifa Bakhoum told reporters. "I, for one, don't want to be told what to do by another narcissist who's drunk on power and who has absolutely no regard for my well-being. It's just a thought, but perhaps we could go with a good, decent human next time, or at least someone who's not a completely egotistical pile of dogshit. That seems like a good thing to try at least once, right? Could we even do that? It's probably worth a shot." When pressed for further comment, however, every member of humanity agreed that the current system, though deeply flawed, remains far better than one in which they actually have to make decisions for themselves.