GRAND RAPIDS, MI--For reasons unknown to her coworkers, Midwest Book & Stationery payroll secretary Elaine Massey is "really pushing" direct deposit, aggressively encouraging fellow employees to have their biweekly checks electronically deposited into their bank accounts, company sources reported Tuesday. "I swear, Elaine has mentioned this direct-deposit thing to me at least four times in the past week alone," said Midwest shipping clerk Jan Prentiss. "I mean, what does she care if I go to the bank or not?" The direct-deposit option, which Massey has assured coworkers is "real simple and just takes a few minutes to set up," first became available during the pay period ending April 17. Ever since, Massey has vigorously championed the option, releasing a memo about it, holding an informational meeting in the breakroom, and approaching each of her co-workers individually to discuss the "great opportunity to save [themselves] some running around." Stock sorter Aaron Douglas is one of 22 Midwest employees Massey has approached in the last month to remind that direct deposit is available for both checking and savings accounts. "I can understand Elaine telling us about this direct-deposit thing once. As payroll secretary, it's probably part of her job to let people know about this kind of stuff," Douglas said. "But, I mean, it's like every single day with her. Does she really get her rocks off knowing we don't have to make a special trip to the bank on payday?" One of the most baffling aspects of Massey's direct-deposit fixation, coworkers said, is the fact that the service in no way lessens her workload. "Even if you have direct deposit, on payday you still get an envelope along with everyone else, only it just has the check stub in it," Douglas said. "So it's not like there are less envelopes for her to handle or something." "In fact," Douglas continued, "It's probably more work for her, because she has to process a whole separate form to okay the procedure. Maybe she just wants to find out which bank we use or something weird like that." Though the reason for her unusual interest in the banking option may never be known, Massey seems motivated in part by a desire to share her own positive experiences using "D.D." "I hardly even go to the bank at all anymore," Massey told new employee Andrea Delvecchio Saturday, spotting her in the Steinberg Furniture & Appliance parking lot. "I just use my ATM card to get cash. And I never have to wait in line!" In the wake of the Delvecchio run-in, coworkers have expressed concern that Massey's solicitations are becoming more aggressive. The last two paydays, Massey handed all employees a direct-deposit request form, which she assured them is kept "strictly confidential." Twenty Midwest employees have already been pressured into signing up as a result. "I didn't really care one way or the other, but Elaine seemed to want it so bad, I finally gave in and signed up for direct deposit," said Larry Orosco, Massey's most recent convert. "At least now, she doesn't bother me about it anymore."