Item! Should old acquaintance be forgot? No, it should be remembered and celebrated. And what better way to remember our favorite acquaintances--celebrities--than by counting down the Are you ready, celebrity friends and celebrity fiends? When I was younger, there was a concert event that swept the world, and that was ! All the greats were there: , , , , you name them and they played! I was too young to go to any of the performances, but I was swept up in whatever cause it was for, and in the music. I made myself a promise that if there were ever such a rocking event again, I wouldn't miss it for the world. Then, this year, it was announced that would be another global concert held for global warming, with tons of bands and . Wow! The thing was, it was right during July Sweeps, so I couldn't go. I did watch parts of it on , though, and it was pretty good. Big money. No whammys. STOP! But it's too late. has taken one of our greatest television personalities off the air for good. I have three cats, and every time I pet them, I say a quiet thanks to for reminding me to spay or neuter them. Farewell, sweet prince. You could run from this green ogre and his sassy donkey, but you couldn't hide. fever hit our shores, leaving millions afraid that they wouldn't be able to hide from this entertaining malady. The only cure for this incredibly infectious disease? Laughter! And fortunately, that's one of the symptoms! Baker wasn't the only one who left a void in daytime television. , daytime programming's oasis of sanity for women, lost one of its strongest voices. is one of the brassiest dames out there, and the silence from her abrupt departure was deafening. Years after broke up, was shrouded in mystery. That veil of secrecy came down when she and her decided to take up residency here in the good old U. S. of A. And it's about time! We could use a little royalty here. I mean, we got , but she's become a lot less royal since she started singing about her , whatever those are. I promised not to mention them until they cleaned up their act, and with one out of rehab but without a blockbuster under her belt, and one pregnant out of wedlock, there's only one left who seems to have turned over a new leaf. So I officially dust off the name and say, "Welcome home, sister!" I think that 2008 will really be the Year of Paris. After endless weeks of waiting, the question "Who will be the next talker?" was answered with a resounding "Whoopee! It's Whoopi!" Any fears people had that the woman filling the seat wouldn't have the outsider view of a world-famous celebrity were put to rest. The new host wasn't the only lingering question in people's minds. The question of what would happen to character was finally answered as well. I can't give it away, because I'm no , but let's just say that he sure can ! Now if only they would resolve . . . There were probably more, but those are the only two I cared about. Could a dream double-bill be in the future? I can only imagine a Policing the Eagles or Getting Pulled Over in the Fast Lane tour. Imagine? I'm already in line! The haters said it couldn't be done, but I showed them. What's my secret? I cut down on the cupcakes and did a little more time on the . And if I can do it, so can you! Wow! What a year that was. It made me a little sad that it was all over, but it makes me more eager than ever to see what brings. Will grow his beard back? Will drop a new joint? Will ever answer my letters? I know one thing: The only way to tell for sure is to check back next time and see what's inside the Outside. And for my New Year's resolution, I resolve to be a leaner, meaner (but still nice) entertainment journalist, digging deeper than ever before. So until then, bring the popcorn, and I'll see you on the Outside!