Material mom just had her second baby! I wish I could report this as good old-fashioned good news, but there have been some complications. Madonna has been tight-lipped about it, but my sources say the baby is covered from head to toe with soft, velvety fur like ! No word as to whether it has a tail. Aside from that, the baby is said to be doing fine and is the spitting image of mom. Fur or otherwise, babies are cute. Way to go, Madonna! magazine's is out, and, boy, is it filled with surprises! Among the stars cited for outstanding achievement in expensive-clothes-wearing: , , and hunktor supreme . And if color photographs of those stars weren't enough to send you racing to your local newsstand, the issue's also got a rare picture of in her ! You may be partial to cats or dogs, but, me, I'll always be a . Best of luck to Emmy Award nominee . Here's hoping he finally nabs that elusive ninth Emmy. The tribal council has spoken! The final was chosen recently, and it was , the flabby gay one. For the longest time, I was rooting for because he was a bit kooky, but then I shifted my Personal Alliance to , because she was so nice and moderately cute, to boot. Then, when was so terrible to her in her final speech, I was totally for Kelly and devastated that Richard won. The whole thing led me on a huge emotional roller coaster that I'm still not recovered from. If I'm lucky, I might be rested up in time for ! I saw the movie, and I was pretty disappointed. There was a real story in there about a beautiful young woman's struggle for the top, but they mussed it up with all sorts of suggestive dancing and tight clothes. That isn't to say that I don't like looking at pretty women, but I was really hoping to be moved by the stirring tale of a trying to make it in the big city. At least it had at the end. That gal can sing! They say you need eight hours of sleep a night, but I usually prefer nine. Screenwriter is turning heads with his new book. It's about politics. And, if I'm remembering what I saw at my local bookstore correctly, it's got a giant pair of lips on the cover. Now, if this book is anywhere near as good as his work on , it should be a sexy sizzler! I don't like to talk politics, but I am totally swept up in ! I mean, I am becoming a real news junkie, watching election coverage whenever I can. I have a pretty good idea who I'm going to vote for, but I don't think it's appropriate to talk about it in a column like this. Just don't get me started over a cup of coffee! The name that is on everyone's lips these days is ! I'll get back to you as soon as I find out why. G'day, ! The Olympics are coming, and all eyes will be on Sydney, Australia, as the world's fastest and most freakish flock to the Land Down Under to compete for golden glory! Word is, Australia's own , recently diagnosed with Parkinson's Disease, will be given the honor of lighting the Olympic flame during the opening ceremonies. If this rumor is true, don't expect to see a dry eye in the house. With his crazy mid-'80s Energizer antics, Jocko truly energized us all. Oi, indeed. The Ms. is a Mrs.! That's right, has tied the knot with . I think that's just terrific. It took a big person to speak out against marriage in Gloria's heyday, and an even bigger person to eat crow and get married, after all. And she's marrying into Hollywood royalty. Who could resist the bright lights of Hollywood? Is it just me or are an awful lot of people riding ? Hey, America, I've got an exercise program for you... it's called ! Some of you are too old for toys like that. Roommates and are selling the house they bought together. All good things have to come to an end, I guess. I remember when I was in college, my best friend and I got an apartment together. As you can probably guess, things changed between us, and we stopped being friends. Looking back, it was all stupid arguments about doing the dishes and leaving junk all over. I figure the same thing happened to Anne and Ellen. Hey, Gil, if you're reading this, give me a call some time. We've got a lot of catching up to do. Remember I told you about ? Well, apparently, the people at MTV aren't concerned about showing what's good for the kids. They awarded the rapper some three Video Music Awards. Hey, MTV, you shouldn't be doing that! Remember, what's good for the kids is good for America. Hey, with all these comic-book movies being made, I want to cast my vote for a film. I mean, those rough-and-tumble guys were the thorn in 's side, but they really had hearts of gold. When people paint their houses, why do they use a drop cloth and not a catch cloth? And why do they park on the driveway and drive on the parkway? These and other humorous observations can be found in a speech I'm working on right now. I don't know where I'm going to give it yet, but you can be sure that I'll keep you in the loop. I found this great magazine called , and the title pretty much sums it up. It's all pretty provocative stuff that makes you want to talk to someone. It's got politics, entertainment, and profiles of . I say kudos to this fine periodical. Well, that's it for this chapter in the book of entertainment as written by me, . You should check back next time, because I'm pretty sure I'll have some news about by then. Until that time, smell that air coming from the West? It's probably magic you're smelling.... Movie magic!