It sure took those network programmers long enough. But better late than never, I suppose. For years, I was convinced they'd never get the TV schedule right. I mean, talk about a mess! Did those geniuses at NBC think I had nothing better to do with my Thursday 8:30 to 9 p.m. slot than watch some weak lead-in like , just because I already had the network on at 8 for the must-see ? And don't even talk to me about CBS. For months, they had on Tuesdays at 8 p.m. Everyone knows that show was made for Fridays at 9! What in the world were they thinking? As long as you're at it, you CBS Einsteins, why don't you take out of its Monday 8:30 slot and move it to Wednesdays at 8:30, opposite ABC's ? Yeah, that'd be a great idea! Things looked truly bleak. But just as I was about to give up once and for all, I opened up my brand-new a few days ago and saw that everything had finally fallen into place. on at 9:30 Fridays, on at 10 p.m. Mondays... It was all too perfect! I can barely remember the last time the TV schedule was so right. It must have been around 1985. NBC's legendary Thursday-night lineup- at 8, at 8:30, at 9, at 9:30-was the anchor of a sublime, perfectly arranged week. On NBC on Mondays, you had from 8 to 9, then you could switch over to CBS for , followed by at 9:30. It was poetic in its simplicity and elegance, a sleek, two-hour jungle cat of prime-time entertainment. For a brief, shining moment, it was Camelot. But, of course, they had to go and mess it all up. When the 1986 season came around, they'd moved to 8, forcing me to choose between that and NBC's concurrent offering, the delicious . Then, to add insult to injury, they followed not with as in the previous year, but with the subpar Pam Dawber vehicle . It was awful. And that's how it was until just this past week. I can't believe that last year at this time, they were making me choose between and . Why even go through the trouble of making these great shows if you're just gonna run them opposite each other? I mean, I can only watch one at a time, for God's sake! And don't even talk to me about VCRs-it's just not the same. But, fortunately, all that's in the past. Because after years of waiting, they've discovered the ideal mix. I don't work in TV programming, so I have no idea why it took so long, but there must be a lot of complicated rules that kept them from just putting everything on at the right time. But now that it's perfect, the networks will never have to change the TV schedule again. It's good to see those fat-cat TV executives are finally earning their pay.