Item! Have you ever noticed that you never see and in the same room at the same time? (She's kind of like and in that way.) Well, that's because the hot singer and the hot teen singer are one and the same person! I hope I haven't put her father, country superstar , in danger by revealing her secret identity, but it's news, and my job is to break big news. Is it just me, or are there too many ? Maybe my age is showing, but I'll take a good old-fashioned animated classic like over a dozen computer cartoons any day. Item! One of the things that makes great is the way we choose our representatives, and we recently chose one of our most important representatives of all: . It was nice to know that, in the midst of high gas prices and war and the , we could come together as a nation and pick a young woman to stand for beauty and talent and womanhood for all America. And the winner this year, in a magical ceremony, was ! As much as I like as hosts, I think that they made a mistake getting rid of . Now, was a host! was a voice! If they don't bring him back I'm not going to stop watching, but if someone could put a word in, that would be great. is in the air, so if you have bulbs that need planting, now is the time. What are you waiting for? Roll up those sleeves and get digging! Item! Are they or aren't they? That question could apply to just about anyone or anything but, music fans, you know what I'm talking about! Rumor has it chanteuse and rap mogul tied the knot recently. Or did they? There's all sorts of conflicting stories behind these so-called nuptials, so I'll just put this out there: Jay, Beyond, you make a great couple, and you've been together for a while. So even if you didn't get married, you are married in my mind and in the minds of your fans. Why not just trot on down to city hall and get the paper? Why do I know the name ? I woke up in the middle of the night and it took me a few minutes before I realized that she was in a sex tape and is now on a reality show. But really, so what? She is just taking up the space in my brain that good, honest celebrities like should hold. If it's that easy to get a reality show, I need to get an . But first, I need to get a . Item! An anonymous New York businessman recently paid for a sex film of . He says it will be kept private. All I can say is wow. No trashy sex for Marilyn--no, she went for film. it will be kept private. That's real class. You hear that, Miss Kardashian? Item! I was walking down the street last week, when I started to get a powerful thirst for some (I cut out the coffee after noon as part of my new health regimen). I stopped by my favorite coffee shop and who should I spot but I have no idea what he was doing in my neck of the woods, but I decided I should just leave him alone. That didn't mean I couldn't watch him, though! Howard's brother seemed really down to earth. He ordered a latte, but he added his own sugar. Then he sat down and started reading or something like that. I'll have to get that book and read it so I have an in next time I see him. I just bought album on CD the other day. And you know what? It still holds up. Take off, eh? Item! It looks like the great lost cause of pop stardom is back on track. The head-shaving diva was recently in a car accident, but according to police on the scene, she passed the . You hear that, haters? There was no liquor involved. You go girl! We knew you could do it! You're only one step away from now. Let me know if you need a character witness. A lot of people have wondered why I haven't weighed in on the tragedy yet. Well, you're just going to have to wonder a while longer. Blind item! gave a certain a series of one-hour specials about the goings-on of Hollywood. Hey, MTV, if you're so desperate to get commentary on the who, what, where, why, and when of celebrities that you'll hire any pathetic fatty who can bang on a keyboard and steal other people's pictures to post online, my number is in the book. And I don't work blue. Well, that about wraps it up for this week's installment of "The Outside Scoop." I didn't get to everything I wanted to--like parking problems or the identity of --but that was only because of space. I meant to, honest! Hopefully, I'll put a little something in there about those jaw-droppers next time. But until then, the velvet rope is up, so I'll have to see you again...on the Outside!