Are you "2" pumped to see ? In light of all the super-duds in this blockbuster summer, I sure was. I needed a dose of more than ever, with the one-two punch of and the beautiful but deadly . And, just when I thought I couldn't take any more, I got Moore... ! Let me tell you, she kicked "2" much butt all over the screen. Speaking of the lovely Ms. Moore, the word on the street is that she's involved in a May-December romance with none other than future "Where Are They Now" candidate . Demi, didn't you get enough of him in the Dell computer ads? If you want a type, then go to the source and watch some of the classic episodes of . Wise up, dear. You can do better--like your last husband, "Whatchoo talkin' 'bout?" . Now, there's a man with class. How is it that the got so famous for banking? In the movies, money is always being transferred to Swiss bank accounts, but the Swiss are about so much more than banks. They're also famous for , , , and . Oh, and ! Hollywood, it's high time you celebrated all things Swiss and stop portraying as a country full of greedy banking villains! Let them have their dignity. Everybody's talkin' at me about the new CD from , so I decided to pick up a copy at my local music store. Boy, was I in for an education! Did you know that music stores now sell at a discount? In fact, they had a bin of CDs marked down to under $2. I couldn't believe what I found: , , . I forgot all about Fifty Cents and walked out with an armload of classics. I'd go back, but I'm afraid I might spend my whole paycheck! , the Jewish , tied the knot with longtime fiancee supermodel . In true comic fashion, his little dog was all decked out in a dog tuxedo and served as best man. I wish I could have been a fly on the wall to see all the funny stuff that went on behind the scenes. Maybe made some of his trademark crazy faces. Anyway, I hope the new Mrs. Sandler can settle him down without taking away his ability to make us laugh. ! It's , and I love nothing better than to slap a slab of beef on the grill. For such a special occasion, I'll share my special recipe for . Ready? Take two pounds of ground beef. Add a small minced (that means chopped up very fine) yellow onion, two cloves of garlic, 1/4 teaspoon of salt, one tablespoon of dill, and no fewer than five twists of fresh ground pepper. That's fresh ground pepper, not the kind in a can. Now, roll up your sleeves, because you're going to be mixing it with your hands. Shape the beef into five patties and you're ready to dazzle! Serve some of these at your next cookout, and I guarantee you'll be the blockbuster of the block. (Don't worry, I'll never tell your secret!) Item! The new season of is on, and if you don't have Sex In The City Fever, you must be living under a rock! I'm not sure what to expect, since I don't have , and I only have the first three seasons on DVD. I hope makes a big splash as Mr. Big again. He's really the one for Carrie. Since I won't be able to follow the action, I'll just pop in the DVDs, watch one episode a week, and pretend they're new. By the season's end, they'll release a new season on DVD so I can get up to speed. Are you as tired as I am of , especially the ones you can see in the back because the girls wear those lowrider jeans and half-shirts? My grandmother used to say that you shouldn't sell the chicken when there's still eggs left in it. Have some modesty, ladies. Speaking of modesty, the hot song of the summer has to be "Camel Toe" by the band . The subject of the song seems to be some sort of fashion problem of a female nature. Keep your ears open, because I'm sure you'll hear more from Fanny Pack in the coming years. Everybody's buddy, Hollywood legend is dead from undisclosed causes. You may remember him from the classic movie or his years playing on TV. On the comedy stage, he may have worked blue from time to time, but in the end he left me blue with his passing. Rest in peace, Buddy. I hate getting by some insensitive jerk. It happened the other day, and I almost left a note under his windshield, but I decided I didn't want to stoop to his level. I'm sure he'll get what's coming to him eventually. Well, that wraps it up for . I have to take some time at the lake to recharge my batteries. It's a yearly ritual for me. I hope you also get a chance to cool down wherever you are, so we're all rested up for my next installment. I don't want to give away too much, but I have a hot lead about a certain weakness for that all-American delicacy, the . Until then, I'm Jackie Harvey, and you're a .