Item! Well, it's that time of year again! Once again, will unplug their phones, plop down in front of their TVs, and watch the greatest human drama on Earth unfold live in front of them! I can only be talking about one thing: Egypt! Just kidding. No, I mean the 83rd Annual Academy Awards! Just when you were catching your breath from the amazing spectacle of the , along come the to really knock your socks off. And if your office has an Oscar pool, you need to keep reading, because my will help you win! Are you ready? ACTION! For the big kahuna, the one everyone wants to know about, , there's only one movie worth considering, and that is . I know, it's arty, but the behind-the-scenes romance between and is resulting in a real-life baby! What other nominee can claim that it was responsible for ? This is the kind of thing really love to sink their teeth into. The dark horse in this category is --no offense to my speech-impeded readers, but there's nothing sexy about a stutter, so I call this a long shot at best. For , a lot of people are saying that is a shoe-in, but I can't see him taking the award this year. Not that he's not a good actor (I loved him as a troubled troubadour in last year's ), but it's unlikely that you're going to win two years in a row unless you're . Besides, was a disappointment. The 3-D made me throw up (again--when will I learn?), and I had no idea what was going on. The first one was simple. They were in a computer, and they had to fight the Master Control Program after being de-rezzed. This one was pure nonsense. That's why I think the best actor Oscar is going to go to actor ...for GROSSNESS! No, I wouldn't really predict that. But he saws his own arm off (Spoiler Alert)! It's disgusting! The real winner will be , because he's British, and playing royalty is glamorous, and people will feel bad if they don't vote for his movie. In the category for , it gets tricky. All the nominees are great, but the movies they're in are big downers, from the name on down (I'm looking at you, ). The exception was , which has some laughs and a nice story. This is why, at the end of the day, the award goes to , because she has to get SOMETHING out of living with . When it comes to , I always err on the side of . True, his work didn't have the flashy urgency of 's , or the surreal qualities of 's work in , or even 's innovative dreamscapes in , but Deakins is brilliant at making a movie look better without drawing attention to itself, and that's a dying art these days. As for ? I'll have to get inside the head of an Academy voter and go with the coolest sounding name, which would be . So there you have it, the Harvey Oscar Picks! Some of you eagle-eyed readers will have noticed that there's a lot of categories I didn't cover, but I guess, to be honest, I'm not as excited this Academy Awards season. Where's the scandal? Where's the drama? And the hosts? Instead of the or magic, we are stuck with a couple of nobodies with all the charm of a mismatched pair of wet socks. I'm sorry, but that's just the . I look forward to the Oscars every year, but with all these art films up for nominations, there's nobody to root for. And that's why the ratings for the broadcast are slipping, Academy. You're betraying your audience. This is the first time in 18 years of writing this column that I canceled my Oscar party. What's the point when I don't really care which one of these movies wins? I saw one yesterday that I could root for called with and . It had heart, depth, and a whole lotta laughs. But to prepare for this column, I had to go see a movie that ends with a guy whose big triumph was that he could send his country to war. Yawn! Remember Entertaining, Hollywood? Maybe you should look it up in a dictionary. It used to be the silver screen was all about entertaining, but not anymore. Not with these nominees. If I wanted to watch ballet or the Internet, I would ! Anyway, maybe I'm just in a funk. This winter has got me down. It's too much snow, and I have six tickets on my car because I couldn't move it after my broke. I've barely seen another human being in two months. I'm going to go watch again and call it a day. Maybe I'll have a change of heart when the Oscars air. Until then, I'll see you across the aisle on the Outside!