CHARLOTTE, NC--With the savage roar of the heathen horde rising all around him, President delivered an incendiary speech to close his party's national convention Thursday night, commanding the ultraprogressive minions in attendance to help him "destroy and usher in a new age of liberal darkness that shall reign o'er the earth for a thousand years." The thunderous 45-minute address--during which the president argued for a second term so that he could "finally kill Jesus once and for all, as well as all those who worship him"--was well received by the frenzied, wild-eyed audience, whose piercing chants of "Four more years!" and "Slaughter the believers!" echoed throughout the Time Warner Cable Arena. "My fellow Americans and godless infidels, I command you to join me as we cast an endless pall of far-left evil across the hills and valleys of our nation!" Obama bellowed from the stage, as thousands in attendance moaned in compliance and gyrated their hips and groins in a lascivious dance. "Together, as a barbarian people forged by the wicked flames of irreligiosity and united by visions of a liberal dystopia, we will rise up as one to scorch the earth with boundless amorality." "The streets shall run red with the blood of forced sodomy, performed daily upon every American man, woman, and child!" the commander-in-chief shouted, froth forming around his mouth as the crowd threw hundreds of aborted fetuses onto the stage. "Die, , die!" Slamming his fists on the lectern until his hands began to bleed, Obama proceeded to lay out a "three-point plan of sin and lechery" for his second term. If reelected, the president said, he would begin by banning organized religion entirely--starting with Christianity--and burning all churches to the ground, preferably "with their wretched, Jesus-loving congregants still huddled inside like rats." As members of the audience violently tugged at their genitals and howled like sex-starved, atheist wolves, Obama stated that his administration would then seek to make free, taxpayer-funded abortions legal at any stage of pregnancy, even up to one full year after birth, in order to supply his newly created "federal stem-cell harvesting plants" with raw materials. In addition, the cackling president vowed to "end traditional marriage as we know it" by passing legislation that would allow only to raise children, a longtime Democratic policy goal. "A glorious new age of sinister, unconstrained liberalism is dawning! Oh, dear Satan, I can feel it coursing through my veins at this very moment!" shrieked Obama, ripping off his shirt to reveal an ornate tattoo of a pentagram, with a different homosexual act positioned at each of the star's five points. "Agnosticism, contempt for human life, and radical sexual experimentation shall rule the day! Any good, virtuous, family-values-oriented Christian Americans who seek to topple our magnificent liberal kingdom of eternal darkness will be powerless to stop us! We will crush them!" Added Obama, "Thank you, may Satan reward you all, and may God tremble in fear at the United States of America!" The president was then handed an unbaptized, orphaned newborn baby drenched in the blood of 666 slaughtered Christians, which he handed over to its new, gleefully squealing homosexual parents.