I believe the best way for us to grow as human beings is to free ourselves from the anxieties and attachments of daily life. If we pursue practices and rituals that lead toward a oneness with existence, if we devote ourselves to mindfulness and meditation, then the cultivation of harmony is available to us all. However, if it is true spiritual enlightenment that you seek, you're gonna have to get past me first. For those with the patience and the commitment, a path to nirvana awaits, and I--His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama of Tibet--am standing right in the middle of it, ready to throw down. The only way you'll ever come to experience the metaphysical unity of mind and soul is by tangoing with yours truly, ? It will be a difficult journey, one upon which you must elevate yourself from excess and learn to derive pleasure from simplicity. There will be many obstacles to overcome, and often it will seem as though your greatest adversary lies within yourself. But in fact, your most determined foe is stronger, fiercer, and coming straight out of Dharamsala packing 600 years of reincarnated spiritual wisdom and a blazing left hook. And you're gonna have to build up some serious inner strength before you take me on, because I bring the pain, and I don't back down. Is it the knowledge of the universe you seek? Do you wish to attain a realization of the interconnectedness of all things? Then you must possess kindness, perseverance, compassion, tolerance, and an iron jaw. Because the only way you'll ever come to experience the metaphysical unity of mind and soul is by tangoing with yours truly, ? You will find there is much to gain from leading a more mindful existence, one that allows you to center your thoughts and channel all your energy into coming at me with everything you've got. And you're gonna need it, because once you step into the ring with me, you definitely won't want to shift your attention away from the now. You will know that life is suffering after I'm done with you. A serene existence free of worry and strife awaits you if you can take down this lean, mean incarnation of the high bodhisattva Avalokitesvara. So come on. Let's do this thing. You'll become acquainted with the universal impermanence of being real quick. I got nowhere else to be, compadre, and I'm ready to impart on you some serious teachings, if you get my drift. Perhaps you wish to learn release from feelings of longing. Then you must abandon your attachment to all material things, except, of course, your first-aid kit. Do you have what it takes to relinquish worldly desires? To abandon the idea of self? To surrender to that which you cannot control? To reach a state of utter tranquility? Okay, then. Nut up and take a swing. It requires careful discipline to live a mindful life, but you will find there are great rewards in separating yourself from the physical experience of what I'm about to do to you. It's you and me, buddy. If you want your enlightenment, come and get it. But I'm warning you, if you seek a state of pure transcendence, then the last thing you're going to see is a flash of crimson robe as you hit the deck. And when you're gripping your throbbing head trying to figure out what just happened, you can meditate on this: When your ass gets knocked to the ground and no one is around to hear it, does it make a sound? Namaste.