It's not just Oscar season, it's also break-up season! Among the Hollywood couples packing up their belongings and moving to Splitsville are and . Rumors have it that both of them were unhappy with the other's ballooning weight, so they decided to split before the situation got worse. For a while, this couple had it all: looks, money, and . But, like so many Hollywood clouds, this one had a dark lining. As if that weren't bad enough, and are rumored to be on the outs. There's really no explanation for something like that. Puffy and J-Lo were America's perfect pair, he of the electric personality and she of the . Just imagine the babies they could have had together. It could have been the start of an . But wait, there's yet another glamour couple in trouble: and . Word is, if their relationship were a drink, it would be ! Say it ain't so, H.H.! The people have spoken and, as always, the people's voice is ! I don't know how many eyes were glued to the television that night, but you sure couldn't tear these two eyeballs away from it. All the stars came out to celebrate . ! ! And who could forget America's sweetheart, ? Right from the get-go, when co-host unexpectedly tore away her dowdy dress to reveal a super-sexy, belly-baring ensemble, I was riveted. I thought rapper was going to faint from surprise! But the most touching moment came when "came out" and accepted his award for Best New Comedy for the Fox gay-com . Even though the show had been canceled, he handled himself with the kind of that only a real star could pull off. I usually don't wear hats, but I will put one on just so I can tip it to you, Mr. Goodman. Congratulations to the folks behind the , recently voted the number-four DVD of all-time in . Speaking of Britney Spears, magician released his list of the , and she was on it. Now, I think Britney may make a few mistakes with her wardrobe, but I can think of a few gals who should come in well below her. Like , the cashier over at the Amoco station near my house. Her awful blouse-and-sweatpants combos make Britney look like ! Mr. Blackstone was right on the money about that nasty , though. I don't even know why she's famous, but I just wish she'd go away already and leave fame to . I just can't get the song from l out of my head. Help! has really taken a turn for the worse since they got to fill in for . Word is that Duchovny and singer/wife are concentrating on raising their child. I just hope they remember that children aren't the only ones with needs... their fans have needs, too! What's this movie I hear so much about? Is it true there's no English in the entire thing? That's crazy. "Material Mom Married!" That's what we in the scoop-getting business call a . It's also a fine example of alliteration. Now, defines alliteration as, "The repetition of the same letter at the beginning of two or more words immediately succeeding each other, or at short intervals." So, it didn't have to be all M's. The headline could have read, "Material Mom Madonna Gets Married!" and it still would have been alliteration. Wordplay is my favorite part of this job. But, yes, Madonna married and it was very splendid. ... temp-tational! Tongues are a-waggin' across America over the tropical exploits of these four and the designed to tempt them! Episode Three saw things heat up between hunky everyman and as they drank fruity margaritas and flirted. Meanwhile, Billy's girlfriend got back at him by having lots of fun on her date, drinking fruity margaritas and flirting! Which couple will be left standing in Episode 32? Only time will tell! Separated at birth? Rapper (which stands for something a bit vulgar) and deeply talented actor . were both captured by the long arm of the law within the same day. Did one tip the cops off to the other? Was there some sort of drug pact going on? Are the rumors about ODB's acting aspirations true? Is Downey marked for death? The rumors are swirling, and it will take a while, but trust yours truly to sift through the lies to bring you the truth. So it turns out that weren't all the rage, after all! Go figure. She stole your heart in , but actress is now married to a long-haired rock musician from . I guess she wasn't really acting when she portrayed a slavering groupie to a rock band of questionable talent. I don't get it: What's a red-hot Hollywood star like Hawn doing with a like that? She should be with or someone like that. That way, when she appeared at a , photographers would get excited about shooting both of them, instead of just her. ? I barely have time to keep up with my ! As ever, it saddens me greatly to say goodbye to another edition of . But if you know me, you know that until my next column, I'll be a bloodhound sniffing out the scoop for you to drink in like a fine wine. By the way, that last sentence was a simile. See? Who says learning can't be fun? Until next time, I'll be sitting in !