SEATTLE--Calling his resume "exceptional" and "like nothing we've ever seen," the human resources department at local public relations firm Brink & Tiller called 22-year-old job applicant Corey Wilhelm immediately after noticing he had a Bachelor of Arts degree in Communications, sources confirmed Wednesday. Wilhelm's resume, which was e-mailed to the firm in regards to an entry-level job opening, was reportedly forwarded to the highest levels of the company, after which executives scrambled to contact the 2012 University of Washington graduate and offer him the position. "A Bachelor of Arts? In communications? I mean, where did this kid come from?" said HR director Robert Bradshaw, who, after seeing Wilhelm's impressive 3.20 cumulative GPA, walked the resume directly into the company president's office and said, "We must hire this person immediately." "I mean, not only did Corey manage to get into the University of Washington School of Communication right out of high school, but--get this--he then graduated with a degree in that very field. A Bachelor of Arts, no less. Rare and gifted is all I have to say." "Jesus Christ," Bradshaw continued, "his resume says he minored in History, too. We really have to move fast if we want to snag this guy." According to Bradshaw, Wilhelm's thorough education in varied subjects such as public speaking and radio broadcasting, compounded with his relatively consistent position on the UW Dean's List, makes him "one of the best--if not best--job applicant the company has ever had." In addition, Wilhelm's formidable career experience, which includes two summers working the reception desk at his father's realty company, a semester-long editorial internship at the luxury magazine , and two years of involvement with his student newspaper reportedly blew Bradshaw out of the water. Impressed and admittedly intimidated company sources went on to confirm that Wilhelm had also completed four years of high school Spanish. "I don't know how this is possible, but it says he has experience in Word, Excel, PowerPoint on both PC Mac," said sales developer Brenda Juarez, explaining that she had to do a double take after reading the line in Wilhelm's cover letter explaining that he had "both professional and personal experience on multiple social media platforms." "And on top of it all, he's taken the classes Introduction to Communication, Writing for Mass Media, and Interpersonal Communication. I mean, this guy's on a different plane altogether." "Honestly, he might even be overqualified to work here," Juarez continued. According to the firm's co-founder Vince Tiller, the company is not only willing to offer Wilhelm the entry-level position for which he applied, but literally any job he wants, just so long as he brings his expertise in singing for his college a capella group and doing his bi-monthly radio show "Wilhelm Wednesdays" to the company. "When you're dealing with somebody like Corey--somebody with a B.A. in Communications--you have to remember that this is the type of guy who goes out there and takes what he wants," said Tiller, adding that he'll never know what it's like to have the world on its knees like Corey Wilhelm. "Keep in mind, on top of everything he accomplished in school, he somehow found time to perform in the campus theater group." "With his skills, it'll only be a matter of time before he's coming for my job," Tiller added. Sources later confirmed that Brink & Tiller had already presented Wilhelm with an initial offer of $275,000 per year. However, the recent college graduate reportedly made a counter offer of $350,000 plus a $50,000 signing bonus, which company management has said it will excitedly accept.