SAN JOSE, CA--More than four months after the couple's break-up, Jeff Knolpe continues to miss total hell-bitch Amanda Moret terribly, it was reported Monday. "Amanda is just a spoiled little rich girl who's always gotten everything she's ever wanted because of a pretty face and fantastic body," said Knolpe, 27, staring at a photograph of Moret. "Did she just forget it was my birthday last week? That bitch couldn't even spare two fucking minutes to call? God, I can't stand her." According to Knolpe, on Jan. 5, without any warning, the scheming psycho-bitch ended their three-year relationship in the cruelest manner possible. "That fucking nut-job purposely broke up with me the night before my brother's wedding. She intentionally waited until I was at my happiest and then, out of nowhere, she lowered the boom," Knolpe said. "Shit, I really wanted her to meet my grandparents that night. They would have loved her." Moret, 25, declined comment, expressing a desire to "get on with my life." The couple first began having relationship problems in July 1996, just three months after meeting, when Knolpe discovered that Moret had been sleeping with a co-worker. When he confronted her about it, she accused him of "causing all of this by never trusting me from the start." Knolpe immediately apologized. Problems continued to plague the couple throughout their relationship. "Nothing I ever did was good enough for Miss High And Fucking Mighty. She'd find an excuse to cut me down any chance she got: what I was wearing, who I hung out with, how I folded her sweaters," Knolpe said. "Well, fuck her. I bet she's already got some other guy doing her every bidding." "I wonder who the poor sucker is," Knolpe added. "It had better not be that one lawyer asshole who was always calling. I hate that guy. She could do so much better." For all the couple's problems, Knolpe still holds out hope for reconciliation. "Amanda shit all over me for pretty much that whole last year, but if we got back together, I know we could work it out," said Knolpe, who loaned Moret $3,000 shortly after the break-up so she could "sort out her feelings" on a trip to Paris. "I know that deep down, she still loves me. That's why, even though she's a completely neurotic, insane, moody, horrible bitch, with all of her temper tantrums and endless demands, it's hard to break things off completely. We're just so good together." Knolpe's friends, who have listened to countless hours of stories of Moret's selfishness, manipulativeness and constant lying--as well as her intelligence, capacity for tenderness and great prowess in bed--had been predicting and even advocating the breakup for years. "Every couple of months, Amanda would threaten to dump Jeff, just to keep him under her thumb," said Tim Heuer, Knolpe's best friend, who twice was propositioned for sex by Moret. "I guess she finally left for good after laying all the blame on Jeff. The worst part is, it worked. I can't believe he's still bumming over that wench." Despite the countless hours Knolpe has spent trying to explain to friends the complexities of the couple's relationship, they still do not understand. "My friends all say I'm better off without her," Knolpe said. "But they have no idea what we went through together, or how special what we had was. And I know they never got to know the Amanda." Sources close to Knolpe said they expect he will wear his friends' patience thin, talking about his horrible bitch of an ex-girlfriend for at least another 15 months. Knolpe disagreed, vowing that he would soon put the entire episode behind him. "You know what? Fuck Amanda Moret," he said. "Amanda told me she would love me forever. Well, then, why did she leave me alone? Because she's a fucking bitch liar, that's why." Added Knolpe: "Maybe I should try calling again."