I just had the new Wampler Longacre turkey franks, and I've got one thing to say: Those new franks are tremendous.... You look up "class" in the dictionary, you get a picture of .... There is nothing more painful than the loss of a loved one.... --sheesh!.... Why doesn't the bank give out free toasters anymore?.... If a sad man wins a million dollars, will it make him happy?.... I always keep two suitcases and a shaving kit packed in case of sudden travelings.... Puppies.... There's two kinds of people in this world: the kind who pull off Band-Aids really slow.... If you're looking for a nice, quiet hobby, I wholeheartedly recommend calligraphy.... The craftsmanship and attention to detail in some of those model-railroad layouts are positively incredible.... The best thing I ever bought was this rubber covering mat for my keyboard.... I don't know about you, but I for one sure wish they'd turn some lights on.... If God in Heaven is ever looking for someone to run his Department of Sassy and Spunky, I would nominate that .... Somehow, I got all wet again.... is the one person who really knows what he's talking about.... may not be a household name, but he should be.... I love children, which is why I decided to get pregnant.... Don't eat Velveeta. It binds you up.... Those Mummenschanz fellas never cease to amaze.... No more X-rays, please.... When you look up in the dictionary, you will see a picture of George Washington, if you have a very, very good dictionary.... The best thing about the San Diego Zoo is all of the wonderful animals. Kudos to the San Diego Zoo.... Dearfoam slippers--I'll never wear shoes again.... has done it again, that devil!.... I would like to shake the hand of the person who invented the turtleneck.... On a sunny Saturday, I love to go to a park, unless I'm coughing up blood.... Donuts. Some people don't like 'em, I like 'em.... , long may she wave.... There's nothing more romantic than L-O-V-E.... For me, you can't go wrong with six, maybe seven.... When you look up penguins in the zoo books, there's a picture of penguins.... , , , and now .... Someone told me had a younger sister, but if you ask me, she doesn't need one.... Go ahead, caller. Go ahead, caller. I said go! Ahead! Caller!.... will be sorely missed.... I'll tell you what. You keep your mints, I'll stick with my gum.... If rock and roll is on the menu, I am at that concert or restaurant.... Has it only been 20 years since was shot?.... If I have to rent a video, nine times out of ten I rent .... I saw a young girl bicycling yesterday.... Greenish-blue I think.... The smell of hot dogs and beer makes me feel 12 years old.... , now there was a set of gams. God rest her soul.... Kudos, , you are truly a lady.... Children of all ages love the whimsical adventures of Peter Pan.... The other day I could have sworn I was about to cough up a lung.... Kudos to 's --bravo!.... I told you not to bother me at home, goddammit.... I never know how to turn one of these damn things off.... Every home should have a framed photo of .... is a prince among men.... Whatever became of common courtesy?.... Who is that Encyclopedia Britannica kid? He's brilliant.... My mother was a statue. Larry King's syndicated column appears every Monday in over 250 newspapers nationwide. His program is seen nightly on CNN.