This holiday season, not zero, not one, but two bug movies are coming out! The first is about giant radioactive mutant ants who crush everything in their New Mexican path. This film, called , is a cautionary tale about the dangers of radiation. The second film is a more charming one called , and it's a documentary about bugs. It may sound like a snooze-fest, but it's actually really fascinating. For example, in it we learn that insects can communicate vocally, and many of them sound just like . Everybody's talking about 's spicy Latin posterior! Now, I usually don't notice these things, but in the case of this zesty, South Of The Border rump, it just can't be helped. Ole! Roaring down the trail blazed by , is a new sitcom about a gay man living with a straight woman. Now, I've seen this show a number of times, and I have to say that the equation of straight woman plus gay man equals laughs! Or, to put it another way, SW+GM=L! If this trend continues, we may eventually see comedies with . Three cheers for ! Hip hip... hoo-gay! Ohio has a new state comptroller, and it's none other than ! Word is, the former WWF great had been dissatisfied with the state's fiscal structure for years, and during the '98 campaign he threatened to strangle incumbent comptroller if he didn't get out of office. Mr. Muraco has yet to appoint an assistant state comptroller, but inside sources say it's between and  While we're on the subject of politics, just stepped down as Speaker Of The House in humiliation and shame. Now, I certainly was never ol' Newt's biggest fan, but he stood by his beliefs, took his lumps, and, through it all, he was . So, here's to Newt. He may be a quitter, but you can't say he's no American. I've been getting a lot of letters lately from fans wondering where I stand on and . Well, wait no further, Harveyheads, because here comes the . First, I have to say that I love . I can really relate to the title character, as I know what it's like to carry a torch for someone and have those affections go unrequited. I once followed a woman I barely knew all the way to the supermarket, only to be rejected before we reached the deli counter. As for , I stand firm in my conviction that it stinks. First of all, no one really talks like those teens do. It's absurd! Also, I think the show dwells too much on . I'm no Prudy Trudy, but prime-time TV is not the place for that kind of ! Stressed out? I have the perfect recipe for relaxation: , and . You'll feel better in no time! No one can say that Hollywood is afraid to take on the big issues. Two movies just came out that take a hard look at and come to the same conclusion: Nazis are bad business! stars as a young Nazi who decides that his life as a bigot is long on hate but short on the one thing we all need... love. Details are sketchy about , but I can tell you that it stars , hunky star and . Both of these films push the envelope and make Americans think about the issues that matter. What's more, they also entertain, so it's a win-win situation. Heil Hollywood! Those involved in this may think that it's a private matter, but the truth is, there's only one victim here-the fans. I say, enough stalling. Put aside your differences and bring on the giant dunking men! Well, that's all for now, but you can be sure I'll have plenty more to bring you next time, what with the coming up and all. And while you're busy shopping and running around, be sure to take some time out to remember the people whose only job is to keep you entertained... . Until next time, keep the faith!