Guess which vampire franchise is... I'm sorry, I couldn't resist! This Halloween I went as interrupting rapper , and I guess I'm still in character a little bit. But I don't want you to think I went in blackface or anything like that. It was very tasteful. Also, I don't want to give the impression that by dressing like him and repeating his words I endorse what he did. Just the opposite: I think his actions at the were totally out of line. In any case, my costume was great, and it won at the Halloween party I went to. All joking aside, comes out this week! And if you don't know what that is, what, have you been living in a box? Perhaps...a ? It's the next installment in the vampire movie series that teaches good values and judgment, duh! I've been waiting for this ever since falling in love with the love story of in the first movie. And who could blame me? All that chemistry between burns up the screen. If you're like me and just can't wait, you should know that they've made book adaptations of the movies available. They're very long, and they tend to be a little repetitive, but they've adapted installments that aren't even out yet! That's dedication. Is it just me, or was that whole revelation about having intercourse with her dad pretty gross? That's one book I'm leaving on the shelves. I am just glued to the television on Sundays lately. Where have you been all my life, ? I just started watching this season, because I heard the show would feature members of the , and I love it. I'm up and down in my seat the whole time, and I've grown to care deeply for each team. If you want my prediction, even though say they're there to win, I think are also there to win, and they want it more. But in the end, I think it's going to come back to the Globetrotters, because if there's one thing they know, it's "globe-trotting!" I was just wondering: If I went to an Eastern European Country, would be pronounced "Yorg Clooney?" If someone could get back to me with that info, that would be great. I need it for a project I'm working on. Never-say-die girl came back with a vengeance this summer, in not one but TWO hilarious movies. And soon, she'll be reprising two of her classic roles...in the same movie! You heard it here first. In a move that only could pull off, Bullock has signed on for a new film in which she will portray both Gracie Hart from and Annie from . How they will pull off this crossover is a mystery, but the movie promises to tie up loose ends from both series, be highly action-packed, and give us a lot of hilarious double takes. turned 40 this month! I wish I could have been at the party. I would love to meet and . Item! By now you've all heard that is leaving , the band that's so bawdy and rocking they even make riding in elevators sound sexy. Well, I have an for you: The band is auditioning new singers, and the frontrunner is Tyler's own daughter, ! Just think about it. She has the looks, the voice, and the last name. Who else could pull it off? And if it winds up not being true, I can always "Dream Away." I know I should buy a CD by because she is very popular, but I'm still not sure she has the staying power of the . Besides, I'm saving up for the new box set CDs. I've heard that I haven't heard the Beatles until I've paid for all their music one more time! I hate this time between leaf season and snow season. It's too cold for and too warm for . Well, that is all the space I have this week for your cool news and hot gossip. Make sure to stop by next time, when I have an exclusive one-on-one with the set dresser for . Until then, I'll be there, in the back row, with a box of popcorn and a large drink...on the Outside!