ASPINWALL, PA--Noting that the 26-year-old with unfulfilled physical needs is easygoing and really fun to hang out with, several of Sarah Valetta's male friends told reporters Tuesday that the sexually frustrated woman is pretty much one of the guys. Sources close to the situation confirmed that the woman, who is constantly consumed by carnal longing, is remarkably laid-back, easy to talk to, and generally willing to grab a beer without much advance notice. "Sarah's really awesome," said Valetta's friend Mark McKean, 27, explaining that the perennially single, sexually pent-up woman is completely comfortable kicking back and watching sports, playing cards, or just shooting the shit. "We'll go out to the bars, we'll be joking around, and she joins right in. You can say pretty much anything around her." "The thing is, I'm not that great at talking to women, but with Sarah, it's not like that," McKean continued. "She's not dramatic; you don't have to walk around on eggshells with her. Sarah never gets mad about stupid little things. She's definitely one of the gang." Valetta, who frequently spends time with the group of friends at their apartments or at local dive bars and aches deeply for romantic affection, is widely regarded by her male companions as "the coolest girl" they have ever met. In addition, the marketing associate who is preoccupied with fears that she is invisible to men is reportedly more fun to be around than any other woman, according to the men interviewed. "You don't have to be on guard around her," said coworker and friend Ted Reiner, 26, a man to whom Valetta gives "awesome" dating advice and whom she has specifically styled her hair and clothes to please and hopefully arouse. "I don't have to worry about what I say to her. I'm never trying to impress her or anything. Plus, she's not high-maintenance at all. And she's not crazy or clingy or anything." "She's just fits right in with the rest of us," Reiner added. "A lot of the time we're having so much fun laughing and joking openly with each other about women or sex that we forget she's even a girl. She's that cool." Emphasizing his appreciation for Valetta's spontaneity, bawdy sense of humor, and love of action movies--all attributes that his own girlfriend does not possess--Reiner said that the tautly wound ball of sexual yearning is a cherished member of his friend group. The undersexed woman, who reportedly feels an agonizing mixture of longing and despair whenever she spends time with her male friends, told reporters that she is lucky to have them. "Those guys are the best," said Valetta, whose acute, hidden craving for sexual contact is ever present and permeates nearly every one of her thoughts. "They're such a blast. I'm always going over to one of their places to watch TV, order some food, [get so sexually distracted that I can barely focus on anything but my own carnal starvation, and then as soon as I get home descend into debilitating worries that I'll always be this terribly, unfathomably alone]. We have a lot of fun." "Plus, it's just a load off to have friends who I can be totally myself around," Valetta added.