I have 47 opinions. Here they are, in no particular order: 1.   Highway billboards, while effective advertising tools, can be distracting and dangerous. 2.   Rich people should donate some percentage of every paycheck to charity. 3.   Lottery tickets are a waste of time given the vastly remote odds of you winning. However, they can be fun as long as you're tempering your expectations and are going in with a group of good friends or coworkers. 4.   Fuel-efficient vehicles are a worthy investment. 5.   Gay people deserve the same rights as straight people. 6.   Watching baseball on TV is boring but going to a baseball game is fun. 7.   The Beatles are the greatest rock band of all time. 8. is the best TV show of all time. 9.   I like when President Obama shows up to a basketball game in street clothes. 10. You should have some friends who have opinions different from your own, if only because seeing the world from a conflicting viewpoint will allow you to grow as a person. 11. Local news is boring. 12. Entertainment news is boring. 13. Romantic comedies are boring. 14. Fox News is bad. 15. Rotisserie chicken is better than fried chicken. 16. I like Nike. They make nice shoes. 17. Daniel Craig is a good James Bond. Better than Timothy Dalton-good and almost Sean Connery-good. 18. Picnics are fun every now and again but going three times in one month to the same park is just too much. Enough already! 19. Capital punishment is wrong. 20. Firearm sales should be more restricted, though I do understand the use of guns for hunting and self-defense purposes. 21. Burt's Bees makes the best chapstick. 22. The Chicago Bulls' 1995-1996 season was the most enjoyable season of all time no matter what the sport. 23. Delta Air Lines is the worst. 24. T-Mobile is the worst. 25. Dial soap is the worst. 26. Dodge is the worst. 27. Fracking is a crime against nature. 28. Big bridges, like the Golden Gate Bridge, are interesting. 29. Rorschach tests seem like an inaccurate method of analyzing a person's psyche. 30. Marriage seems like a big commitment. 31. Rachel McAdams, Anne Hathaway, Diane Sawyer, and Emma Stone are all very attractive women. 32. Oranges and bananas are the best fruits. 33. America needs to more closely examine its corporate tax laws, as big businesses exploit egregious loopholes that are in turn paid for by local businesses, as well as everyday middle- and lower-income citizens. 34. Salt and vinegar chips are better than regular potato chips. 35. Ukrainian people are scary. 36. I don't want a tattoo, but if you feel that strongly about an image, I suppose I can understand why you'd want to get one. 37. Karaoke can be fun as long as you avoid rap songs. 38. Abraham Lincoln was the best president, I guess. 39. Liquid laundry detergent is better than powdered laundry detergent. That's not even an opinion. It's a fact. 40. The Red Racer IPA is the best beer I've had, but you shouldn't be so much of a beer snob that you can't have a Bud Light every now and then. 41. WD-40 really needs a competitor. 42. Children should have more time to just be children. 43. If you're looking to purchase a beginner's motorcycle, I'd probably suggest you go with the 2011 Honda CBR250R. With its power coming mostly from a single-cylinder 249cc engine that is fuel-injected via a twin-beam Honda PGM-FI system, this bike's got an aggressive, yet mild, ride that shares a lot of the same styling cues as the more powerful Honda VFR1200F. Some people argue that the Kawasaki Ninja 250R will give you a bit more horsepower for the same amount of money, but personally, I've found the Honda's comfort, torque, and handling ultimately make it the superior bike. Overall, I'd recommend trying both out and seeing what's right for you, but I've got a feeling once you see this baby's blue backlit LCD instruments, stunning silver trim, and analog tachometer, you'll know you're getting the most bang for your buck. 44. Floor lamps are a really easy way to brighten up a place. 45. Robin Williams is funny and a good actor. 46. Women should have the right to choose. 47. New York City is better than Los Angeles. Those were all of my opinions. Thank you for reading them.