WASHINGTON, DC--America's morbidly obese are hungry. For years, the processed-food industry has desperately tried to placate them with empty-calorie foodstuffs with a satisfying texture, but their appetites have proven insatiable. A new report released Monday by the National Health Council, however, suggests that the answer to morbidly obese Americans' problems could be standing right behind them in the buffet line. Dr. Harmon Kressler, one of the report's authors, said that the nation's "Category 1 obese"--persons with 25-40 percent body fat--are an excellent source of the trans fats and lipids that even fatter Americans require to sustain themselves. "'Regular-obese' people are loaded with the triglycerides, butyric acids, glucose, and rich buttery lard that the 'mega-obese' would otherwise have to derive from two or three food groups," Kressler said. According to Andrew Weinstein, the study's lead researcher, this development could offer the solution to the obesity epidemic in America. "Obesity is a problem that we thought could only be remedied by diet, exercise, or more realistically, expensive gastrointestinal surgery," Weinstein said. "But this method would not only provide the mega-obese with a seemingly never-ending supply of sustenance, it would also slash obesity rates in this nation by more than half." Although some experts worry that the mega-obese will be reluctant to consume other obese humans, Kressler said palatability will not be a problem. "Through incessant eating, most of the mega-obese have worn down the sensitivity of their taste buds, and respond only to the most intensely salty, oily, or sweet foodstuffs," Kressler said. "The dense, high-viscosity oil that oozes out of the pores--or 'flavor crannies'--of deep-fried obese flesh is sure to stimulate the voracious appetites of the mega-obese." Despite the millions of regular-obese people and the thousands more that join their ranks every day, Kressler conceded that "once the mega-obese polish off the regular-obese, they may start feeding on the slightly overweight, a sector that comprises all but 0.1 percent of American adults."