What a crazy year it was! So many big names made news in 1996, it will certainly go down as The Year Of The Celebrity. With that in mind, let's look back into Jackie Harvey's crystal ball... D-I-V-O-R-C-E spells divorce. Again! This time I'm talking about and . Is that guy weird or what? First, the Gloved One unties the knot, then he goes and gets pregnant. Cripes! Certainly no way for a pop mega-star to behave. In 1996, they finally stepped in to clean up television. Now, I'm a pretty "with-it" guy, but some of the stuff they were showing was just plain indecent! There were bare bottoms, killings with guns, and a lot of . One more minute and I was going to have to step in to use the power of the press to fight some of that stuff myself. Speaking of clean TV, was the Queen of Nice this year, proving that you don't have to be filthy to make it on TV. You go, girl! For all of you rock and roll fans (I know I'm one!), Van Halen gave the boot and brought back . Then, they kicked Roth back out and brought in some guy from ! Hey guys, can I use my press credentials to get front-row seats on your next tour? It can't hurt to ask! And how about that ! Is he the greatest, or what? Rumor is, he may even appear on a soon! , you're one lucky lady. Hunk-tor from went on a rampage against photographers and video people trying to catch him in the buff. Apparently, Mr. Clooney was scrubbing down in the shower and was surprised by a photographer. Well, Mr. Clooney was firm but polite, and he escorted that rascal out, then vowed not to take a picture until people stopped invading his privacy. I'm with him . Everybody did the in '96! Except me. I have two left feet when it comes to doing dance moves. Anyone up for the chicken dance? Gorgeous got back in the limelight again with her terrific new TV comedy, . She co-stars with as a magazine writer who is coming into her own in the big city, and she exchanges japes with as well. With plenty of laughs and plenty of fun, the only thing I wish there was more of is Brooke! This was also the year strange alien lifeforms descended from the sky. Forget --I'm talking about ! took a beating when it was revealed that her clothes were made by children in foreign sweat shops. Oh, please! As if we all don't employ youngsters now and then. I pay the kid down the street $2 to shovel my walk, and his mother thinks it builds character. We all know that mothers know best, so just lay off of Kathie, okay? She has enough to worry about with her show and being a good mother and a good wife to . Is she gay, or isn't she? That was the big question on the minds of fans (count me in) in '96. And she hasn't decided. Ellen, you're ! Every time I turned the channel, it seemed like there was another story about the . My own intern says that I should try it, but all I saw were a bunch of ads for computer stuff. What's the hoo-hah, guys? Whew! Well, that about wraps up 1996, folks. It should be a tough one to beat. But whatever happens this coming year, you can be sure of one thing: Jackie Harvey will be there to bring you plenty of juicy gossip! Happy 1997!