LOS ANGELES--Struggling actress Heather Pryor, 24, announced Monday that Vagisil is her number-one choice for fighting feminine itch. "Whether I'm experiencing discomfort caused by vaginal dryness, burning or just mild irritation, Vagisil is the brand I can trust," Pryor, who moved to Los Angeles in 1996 to pursue her lifelong goal of becoming a professional actress, told reporters. "Vagisil--it's fast, effective relief from feminine itching." Pryor, a 1995 Indiana University graduate with a bachelor's degree in theater, said Vagisil was developed by top gynecologists with a woman's special needs in mind. "Unlike many competing brands, Vagisil is made by people who understand my needs as a woman," Pryor said during her 30-second pro-Vagisil address, which will air shortly after 8 p.m. EST Saturday during a rerun. "Its powerful anti-itch ingredients start to work instantly, but Vagisil also contains moisturizers that protect a woman's sensitive skin from redness and chafing," Pryor added. "I like that." Drawing upon skills honed during years of acting lessons, the woman who hopes to be "the next Meryl Streep" noted that Vagisil contains the strongest medicine of its kind available without a prescription. "Vagisil is so effective because the soothing, cooling cream works directly on delicate skin to restore comfort-- ," said Pryor, who starred in stage productions of , , and while at Indiana. "No other topical anti-inflammatory ointment works better." Since moving to Los Angeles, Pryor has been active in numerous causes. In May 1996, she embarked on a campaign to raise awareness of Odor Eaters, praising the shoe inserts as "your foot's best friend." Last year, she adopted a strong pro-Pamprin stance, and she has also been highly outspoken in her support of BedMart, which she called "the bedding store where the people make the difference." For now, however, Pryor's focus remains on raising Vagisil awareness. "Try Vagisil," she said Monday in a nationally televised appeal to the American people. "Or try Vagisil yeast-itch-control suppositories: Their gentle, effective formula helps eliminate vaginal discharge as it controls odor."