According to my sources, the --the Oscars of television--are going to be hosted by no less than seven comedians. Before you get your hopes up, I checked, and none of the hosts will be funnyman . Now, I ask you, the esteemed Academy, why waste a golden opportunity? I'm sure the other hosts are very funny, but have they proven themselves like Billy? I doubt it. Boy, I guess no one liked , huh? Wrong! Even though I've had enough of the , I gave the movie a try, and you know what? It was pretty good. You can see the beginning of the real-life sparks flying on screen, just like you did with and in the song " ." I think people reviewed Ben and J-Lo's relationship, not their movie, and that's just not fair. For the first time, I'm ashamed to be part of the entertainment-journalism community. (By the way, did you know that Gigli is pronounced " " and not " "? Who says you can't learn things from the movies?) I can't wait until October. Not only will it cool down, but also, the will come out. I confess that I love sitting in a dark theater getting the wits scared out of me by a scary-scary movie. Not just scary, the likes of or , but scary-scary, like . His really gives me the willies! Those creatures of the night, what music they make... It's true what they say. It's not the , it's the . Fox is starting the fall season early this year with the steamy beach series . That's shorthand for Ocean Pacific, and it stars as a fashion designer trying to re-launch his line of beach wear while raising a juvenile-delinquent kid. I haven't seen it yet, but as soon as I get a night free, I'll be right in front of my television catching the waves. How Gallagher can be on a new series while he's running for governor of California and smashing vegetables with a is a mystery to me. I wish I had one-tenth of that man's energy. Speaking of , how about that governor's race? I don't think it's right that a minority of voters can enact a recall of a sitting governor, particularly when you consider that it only takes 65 signatures and $3,500 to enter the race. It's also not fair that the sitting governor requires a to remain in office, as opposed to the an opponent needs to unseat him. Personally, I'd vote for any day of the week. Who's going to say no to the ? He'll "erase" that deficit like no one else can--that's for sure. I felt like I needed to get back to nature, so I started planning a camping trip. Just after I bought all the gear, I saw this great documentary called . I went in thinking it was about one of my 10 favorite bands, (#6 on the list). Turns out, I was wrong, but joyously so--it was actually a nature documentary full of beautiful shots of migrating birds. That pretty much took care of the outdoor urge for me. Anyone want a good deal on a tent and sleeping bag? Boy, that sure had everyone in a tizzy! I wasn't affected, but I was glued to the TV news coverage. I'd like to personally thank for the heroism they showed by acting like human beings during the crisis. I blew a fuse once, and I had to sit and eat all my ice cream before it melted. I can only imagine what it must have been like for people in one of the affected states. For the life of me, I can't understand the show . There's so much yelling and cruelty. I tell you, if I wanted a Japanese man to yell at me, I'd move to and marry a Japanese man, if I were gay. Just kidding. I do love Japanese people, though. Those I've met haven't shouted nearly as much as the ones on that show. Speaking of shows, I can't wait for the new fall TV season to start. Tops on my list of ? One word: ! There's a lot more going on in the world of entertainment, but I only have so much space. I'll leave you with a little teaser about ' next "role" as a baker looking for a new "sweet"-heart! Hungry for more? Stay tuned for the next installment of The Outside Scoop!