There's some hot news down at the rumor mill, and I want you to hear it first, my faithful Harveyheads. Remember this past January's Super Bowl, when the was killed just before the game? Well, America didn't let that dampen its spirits when it came to enjoying the triumphant return of ! As you surely recall, faked his own death, only to reveal himself to the entire world during the halftime show. Anyway, word out of Hollywood is that Belushi and are carrying that momentum straight to the silver screen, and does it ever promise to be a doozy! I don't want to give away too much about the new movie, but my sources tell me that it involves the boys getting the band back together... again! If you ask me, this is just what America needs--a hearty dose of laughter and some honest-to-goodness blues music. Speaking of the Super Bowl, football season is gearing up, and so am I! My pick? Well, I'm not a betting man, but if I were, I'd say the smart money is on the Miami Dolphins. Why? Well, for one thing, "Miami" sounds like "money," which reminds me of the million-dollar catch phrase, "Show me the money!" from . Also, Miami is such a tropical paradise that who wouldn't feel like they'd just won the Super Bowl living there? Actor/heartthrob was recently arrested for biting a man! Yes, it's true! But that's not the half of it. According to a reliable source, he was under the influence of when he did it! Slater, known best for his roles in and , had no comment, but I sure do: Why do you think they call it "dope," Crispin? Actors are already on top of the world when they make it into the movies. What would possess them to throw it all away on drugs? Isn't being a part of Tinseltown, the , enough of a high? To Confidential In Canoga Park: Yes, that is the same of fame who starred in . It looks like you've won yourself a dinner! No need to thank me, though. I'm just doing my job as best I can. Dishy actress is reprising her character from the movies! Look for her to be machine-gunning her way into America's hearts once more this fall when she teams up with the and shoots ... and to thrill! This should finally put to rest all the rumors that Adrienne died during the filming of . I tell you, the stuff they're getting away with in movies nowadays--sheesh! I mean, have you seen ? Pretty suggestive stuff! I only hope that Hollywood keeps a level head and doesn't let it go too far. Does ever stop? I mean, time and time again, he floors me with his great acting! The mobster in , the mafia don in , the con man in the gangster in and the criminal in --sensational ability is clearly at work here! If he keeps it up, he's going to be the next ! As I'm sure you know, used to be a carpenter. But did you also know he hand-built all the sets for ? Yes, a little bird tells me that Ford was not satisfied with the work being done, so he picked up the old hammer and started whacking away himself! Before you know it, he had made an apartment set so good that three people still live in it today! How's that for movie magic? The '60s are back! Yes, look around, and you'll see a proliferation of bell-bottoms and tie-dyed , not to mention people of all ages "grooving" to the music of and ! It's like the years all over again, so you'd better get out there while things are still "uptight" and "out of sight." And remember to tell them that Jackie Harvey set you! Can anyone spell 's name correctly? Anyone besides her, that is! I'd like to meet the person that can! Everybody's humming the song "MMMBop"! Except me, of course, because I've never heard it. Would someone be so kind as to send me a copy? I need it because my job requires me to stay on top of all the hot trends in popular culture. And finally, I don't want to jinx it or anything, but a certain entertainment columnist may have next Friday. I won't give away any more, but you can be sure that next week you'll read all about it right here in this column! (Don't worry, --I never kiss and tell!)