EVERYWHERE IN SPACE-TIME SIMULTANEOUSLY--Attempting to appeal to the widest possible demographic base as Day draws near, President Obama made a surprise campaign stop Monday to visit an infinite series of alternate universes that vibrate on a hyperdimensional plane different from the three spatial dimensions observable in our own universe. Occupying an M-theory-postulated "brane," or multidimensional "membrane," of either 11 or 22 dimensions depending on the chirality of the observer, Obama urged any hypothetical sentient consciousnesses within that multiverse to vote for him in November, or in whatever analogous chronological period their version of space-time specifies as extant. "I come here today to stress the importance of finishing the work we've started and moving our political discourse forward," said the president, his voice confident and assured despite its sound waves propagating in wildly divergent modes incompatibly different from that of his and our native universe, due to differences in the fundamental physical constants guiding the alternate existence in which he stood. "It's time we talked about the issues that truly matter to voters, and not just to a select few." "If we all work together, we can do this," said Obama, maintaining his composure despite the fact that a "rippling" effect was causing concentric waveforms to appear in the surface of his podium as his hand inadvertently passed through it. "We can start building a better tomorrow." At times contracting in size to near Planck-length in the subatomic realm of quantum foam, and at other times seeming to hover alone in a vast empty expanse of macrocosmic scale, the president spoke on a variety of topics, defending his oft-attacked economic policies and stressing the importance of alternative energy development, even as the subjective reality of his own consciousness fluctuated randomly between differing mutually incompatible percept-states. As his physical form split in two, diverged along parallel but separate time streams, and veered into realms that cannot be expressed by any known mathematical formulations, Obama stayed firmly on message throughout his address, despite the massive cosmological forces unleashed by the contradicting realities constituting the event. Several times during the speech, a blaring sound was reportedly heard as the multiverse threatened to collapse due to the paradoxical impossibility of Obama and itself existing simultaneously in the same plane of reality. "This is a bold move on Obama's part," said pollster Gregory Shire, a three-dimensional occupant of the universe knowable through our own current conception of reality. "By reaching out to include regions of purely mathematical speculation unverifiable by observable phenomena, the president is showing greater coalition-building ambition than any politician in recent history. And I think this ambition will pay significant dividends come Election Day." Despite the apparent political value of the speech, some Democratic insiders expressed concern that he is leaving himself open to criticism by the many thinkers who view non-empirically-observable constructs such as the one he visited Monday to be fundamentally invalid. Other critics have noted that the president runs the risk of being crushed in universes where gravity is 10,000 times more powerful than in our own, and where all the matter in his physical makeup could at any moment be converted into powerful, condensed energy in a miniature "big bang" event that would hasten the destruction of every universe, including our own. Still, the president's surprise visit to the M-theory-postulated multiverse has for the most part been met with considerable acclaim, with many hailing it as one of the stronger stump speeches of his campaign. "I will never stop fighting for the values and the policies that truly matter," said Obama, who according to aides may be considering a potentially infinite number of campaign stops in additional multiverses, all of which occupy alternate segments of the totality of possible realities and are continually splitting into different quantum branches of Hilbert space. "The era of politics as partisan gamesmanship must come to an end. We must all work together to accomplish this." After speaking for what may have been 15 minutes, five days, or no elapsed time at all, the president closed his hyperdimensional remarks by clutching his head, screaming "Aaaaaauuuuugggghhh!!" and suddenly finding himself back in the Oval Office five hours earlier than he left.