"Short-perstar" is broke... and I'm the better for it! Out of money, the down-and-out Diff'rent Stroker recently put his belongings up for auction on the Internet, and none other than was the winner of his spatula! I won't divulge the exact amount of my bid, but suffice to say, it was in the I can't wait to cook up some of my famous Harvey Hash Browns with my famous Gary Coleman spatula! Attention all you ... is finally out on video! Do I hear wedding bells for Brad? Hunktor extraordinaire was seen wining and dining good "Friend" at a Manhattan bistro last Saturday, and it was anything but a . In fact, the way they were making goo-goo eyes at each other, it was more like a Love Club! Rumor has it, the next day, Brad got down on one knee during a stroll in Central Park, but it's unclear whether he was proposing or just adjusting . Stay tuned! Good luck to , who is putting down her microphone to try to have a little Canadian songbird of her own. Her husband/manager has been patiently waiting to impregnate Celine since she was , and the time finally seems right. is looking at the man at the mirror, and do you know what he sees? Horror writer ! That's right, the King of Pop has signed on to play the King of Scary Stories in an upcoming film. According to my sources, he's preparing for the role by growing a , dressing in black and scaring people. Sounds like a real "Thriller"! It's worth the extra money to get the best you possibly can. In the eating-my-words department, when left last year, I quipped that he wouldn't be able to get arrested in Hollywood. Boy, was I wrong! Priestley was arrested last week for reckless driving, possibly while drunk. I guess I should stick to reporting the instead of predicting the future. As long as we're on the subject, I want to take this opportunity to be serious for a moment about drunk driving. You should not do it. Ever. I don't care if himself is telling you that it's cool to get behind the wheel after a few drinks, you should take a cab instead. You'll be happier in the long run. Somebody cancel my credit card! It's , and I'm a menace to society! (Make that my bank account!) I saw last weekend, and I have to say that must be turning over in his grave from what's been done to his timeless classic. In the new version, is not a detective, and he's not gangly or awkward, either. And the blood! Not since have I seen a movie this violent. On the other hand, and make a pretty good team. While they're on the screen, fly! The word on the grapevine is that the pair has rekindled the romance that began on the set of But you didn't hear it from me! I smell Oscar... and once again, it's coming from the direction of ! , based on a play, looks like it's sure to lift the human spirit and leave moviegoers feeling downright triumphant! First , then , now this. Can Tom Terrific do no wrong? Everywhere I go, it's millennium, millennium, millennium! It seems that people everywhere are all excited about making plans for the big event. And guess what? Yours truly is no exception! I have not one, but I've been invited to this New Year's. Actually, I was really hoping to ring in 2000 at the big concert at Madison Square Garden, but tickets started at $450, and I just don't have that kind of cash. Donations, however, will be gladly accepted! Speaking of millennium, I just heard the new album, , and I'm hooked! has gripped the nation like a python grips a rabbit. But unlike the python, the game-show craze isn't going to consume us--it's going to entertain us! is far and away the most popular one and, having watched several episodes, I can see why. It's like the thrill of a game show coupled with the thrill of sitting next to for an hour. There's another one on Fox that I haven't seen yet called , but I'm not very interested. It's hosted by that obscene and is probably filled with jokes that would make sailors blush. I'll probably watch it for the sake of research, but I won't like it! What's the deal with ? I mean, is that little yellow thing called or Pokemon? And how exactly can I catch them all? I don't even know what they are! Someone, help! Funnyman is again filling the silver screen, and he's playing yet another real-life figure. Following up his smash turn as , the master comic is now portraying star . To be honest, I didn't know who Jeff Conaway was until my intern told me he was the guy who played aspiring actor , not to mention To whomever is responsible for bringing this handsome, enigmatic man's life story to the big screen, I've got one thing to say: Dank you veddy much! If most nuclear physicists look anything like Bond gal pal , sign me up! ... Should I get one or not? On the one hand, they're small and shiny, and they won't wear out. (I'm already on my third VHS copy of .) On the down side, you can't record on them and can't play your on them. Whatever advice you have is greatly appreciated, loyal readers. Action fans, take note: is back! 'Nuff said! Just in time for the holidays, director has released a potty-mouthed movie called that purportedly takes on the Catholic church. The movie stars couple and as a pair of angels--but they're no angels! Instead, they carry guns and curse. I'm not a Catholic (I was raised a decent Lutheran), but I don't think it's appropriate to mock a religion like that. Shame on Williamson for his bad taste and questionable judgment! Sorry if I've been a little hot-headed in this column. I guess I've been on edge ever since I went to and found out that I have a mild allergy to . I'm such a lobster lover, they may as well have told me I have six months to live! But despite my crankiness, I do want to take this holiday time to thank you for letting me into your home, faithful reader. I know there are a lot of out there, and they're all supposedly telling you the , so it means a lot to me that you'd choose mine. And it would mean even more to me if you'd write and tell him how much you enjoy this column. Remember, if you're looking to the sky this holiday season and see an extra-bright light, it's either , indicating that the Rapture is soon upon us, or it's another from the Hollywood dream factory. So, until next time, this is Jackie Harvey, wishing you a happy, star-studded holiday season!