star is now X-Wife Ann Gillian. According to one of my better inside sources, the deadly agent with a license to thrill was taking too many risks for 's liking. So, he packed the china, and it was adios! Can you believe some guy would walk out on America's sexiest CIA agent? Somebody ought to check his pulse! Anyway, if you're reading this column, Ann, I'm still free this Saturday night! As people are fond of saying lately, Well, it's probably in 's pocket! I won't reveal my source, but I recently read that he was paid over a million dollars for . Don't you think it's about time we started paying these movie stars a little less and started paying our a little more? With my nationally syndicated column, am an entertainer of sorts, but I certainly don't make the big money. Do I want to? Not really. A bit of a raise might be nice, but my job is made all the better when I receive a card from a fan. That really makes all the difference in the world to me. There's a lot of hullabaloo about the , but I've only heard of three of them: , , and ER. If anyone has access to the complete list, I'd appreciate a peek at it. I would have caught it on the news, but went out. Second time in two months. I must be cursed! Is that one dynamite singer, or what? Talk about pipes!  just had his baby--and they didn't know whether he was the mother or the father! Now, you know I'm only joking. I saw a use that line the other night at , so I thought I'd pass it along. Really, though, Michael Jackson had a baby, and it was a boy, and there's nothing really funny about that. Congratulations to you, Mr. Jackson, and also to your , whatever her name is. Hmm... Jacko had a baby. had a baby. Could this be a sign that Jackie Harvey's biological clock is ticking? I'll keep you updated! My editor wants me to cut down on all the gossip. He's cutting the checks, so I suppose he gets to call the shots. Jealousy, maybe?  , who's had more husbands than I've had dates, is getting operated on soon. Apparently, she's having a piece of shrapnel removed from her head. How did it get there? It's an interesting story. While she was doing a , a grenade went off and caught her right above the temple. That didn't stop her, though, from coming to the aid of half a dozen wounded GIs before calling for medical attention. She's a trooper, that Liz, and she could really use in the coming weeks. For those of you who were holding your breath waiting for the answer to last week's , wait no more. The answer was none other than , and one of walks away with a dinner for two at Shoney's. We're still waiting for a sponsor for our next contest, so keep reading this spot for more information. Well, that's all for now. Tune in next time, when Jackie Harvey brings you lots more of the Outside Scoop!