Megasuperduperstar and are calling it quits after five years of wedded bliss. No official word yet on the cause of the divorce, but rumor has it, the wife was frustrated over Jackson's refusal to let her appear in one of his . Sounds like the same thing that tragically drove apart. Let's just hope there's no bitter custody battle over the animals. In times of divorce, the first priority should be to do what is best for . Talk-show host/actress/author/fitness guru/book recommender is now wearing yet another hat: college-football coach! Yes, the ever-versatile Oprah is the new head coach at Western Kentucky University, whose team lost its last 22 games before making the switch. If anyone can motivate people, whether to lose those last 20 pounds or get that ball into the end zone, it's our Oprah. Make that Oprah! A lot of people have been asking me what I think about the controversial painting of the Virgin Mary that's covered in . Elephant dung? I'm sure it stinks! A pair of celebrity glamour couples were seen double-dating in Miami this weekend. Actor-lovebirds and and red-hot musicmakers and were seen swing-dancing together at a Miami dance club Saturday night, partying like it's 1999. No word on whether the couples did any date-swapping, but with those four in a room together, one thing's for sure: A time was had by all! There's another star in heaven. Academy Award-winning actor has passed away, leaving a gaping void in the field of thespianism. Peppard was famous for breathing life into two legendary military men, noble American General and from . Whether he was giving a speech in front of a huge American flag or slipping knock-out drops into B.A.'s milk, this great actor was never less than riveting. A 21-gun salute is in order to mark his passing. Have you seen this new alternative singer ? If you ask me, he looks suspiciously like another music superstar. Could Mr. Gaines actually be none other than in disguise? I'll keep you posted! Item! Actor is proving that there is life after controversy. Following his arrest in a disreputable theater in the 1980s, Herman dropped out of the limelight for about 10 years. Now, using the moniker , he is making another go at the Hollywood dream. He began his comeback by playing a in the recent action comedy . While I have not yet seen this film, all accounts would indicate that he is back on track for generating laughter. I say kudos! One of the things that makes this nation great is , and I think it's high time we let the past rest. Whatever he did is just water under the bridge, and in these troubled times at the dawn of a new millennium, we could all use a hearty laugh. You know, I am just sick to death of . "Press one for X, press two for Y, press three for Z." How about I just press the until you get me a real person to talk to! Get ready for more talk shows! (show-biz shorthand for , FYI (For Your Information)) alum now has one and so does star . Some people say there are too many celebrity talk shows on TV, but that's like complaining that there are too many chocolate chips in a bag of ! Speaking of a lot, there sure do seem to be a lot of on TV right now. I just might put on the old judicial robes myself to cash in on some of this action. Call me ! Just so you know, I am fully aware that the dawning of is upon us. But I've decided to wait a bit before I throw my two cents in. I mean, a lot of money, time and effort go into these new shows, so I want to give them a fair shake before I start putting my journalistic weight behind them or pushing them off the air with a sharp barb. Right now, all I'll say about the new season is this: is back, and he's as sassy as ever! Have any of you taken the time recently to as they watch the sun go down? There's nothing better for knocking the old heart rate down a few pegs. Speaking of getting knocked down a few pegs, that's just what did to me recently. In my last column, I brought you some news about being cast as in the new movie. Well, Ian pointed out that she was actually cast as . I have only one thing to say: You're fired, Ian! Just kidding! Actually, I apologize to you, the reader, for any conversational faux-pas this may have caused you. And to Ian, I'd like to say thank you. I don't mind the criticism. It just helps me be more careful and do a . When I go outside and smell more burning leaves than it can only mean fall is here, and that and aren't too far behind. Even has ! The latest rumor out of the nation's Beltway is that the 2000 Democratic presidential ticket will be and , reuniting the old bosom buddies for a serious run at Good luck, fellas! Well, that's it for this week. So until next time, If life is getting you down, take comfort in the fact that there's a whole world of celebrities out there, all working toward one thing, and that is churning out to keep you in the pink! Keep an eye out for me soon!