By now, the whole nation knows that televisionland's favorite couple, Paul and Jamie Buchman of has finally had its long-dreamed-of baby. (If you didn't know, you should have--after all, it was only .) But did you know that they will be having more? Yes, in a storyline ripped straight out of today's headlines, the couple is going to adopt to get them off the street and into America's hearts. By putting a little into the show, they are making one of my favorite shows all the better! I think that and make a great couple, and I'll keep watching them and their madcap romantic antics until I die! I'm simply mad about ! Speaking of today's headlines, I've been bitten by the that is going around! Seven babies! It's simply a miracle! I was rooting for them the whole time. Just think of all the love that will fill that . I come from a small family, so I've never known what it would be like, but it must be splendid. Seven babies! Wow! Actor has a secret... He plays a in a movie! Don't worry, ladies, he's not really gay, he's just an actor playing a role, much like or . According to my sources, the movie, titled , is a real scream. And not the kind of scream you'd get from the movie , but rather one of the hooting variety. I can't wait to see it myself. If there's one thing Jackie Harvey loves, it's a good laugh! And now, from the ... As all you Harveyheads may recall, in my last column, I made a plea to the entertainment gods for more of dreamy . Lo and behold, I just saw her in a ! I was so entranced by her beauty that I can't even remember what the commercial was for. (I think it might have been for .) Just be sure to watch for it, and, if you do see it, go out and buy whatever product she's endorsing to send those advertising bigwigs a message loud and clear: Selma Hayek is the greatest! Do really love trucks? That sure seems to think so. One thing's for sure, though: That guy doesn't talk much. Supermodel (more like super model) is making the rounds... the chicken rounds, that is! My sources tell me that Moss is a super-huge chicken fan, and has decided to go on a worldwide search to find . No word yet as to which birds are making the cut, but in case you're keeping score at home, Moss is said to prefer fried to rotisserie. I wonder what husband thinks of his wife's other love? When winter rolls around, I don't just get colds, I get ! That would be colder than a cold, of course. Christmas albums are coming out, and no one could be happier! Than me, that is. I must own at least 75 Christmas albums (eight by Christmas legend alone). So far this year, I've gotten the Christmas album, the Christmas album, and a Christmas album whose proceeds go toward a good cause involving . Some people collect stamps, some people collect vacuum cleaners, but I collect . And if that's wrong, I don't ever want to be right.