Now that my long-awaited autobiography, , has become the publishing triumph of the season, I am proud to announce that this great work will soon be made available on stereo-scope. The public will be able to view events from my life in arresting three-dimensional depth unattainable from the regular photo-graphic view. The stereo-scope collection, divided into three sets of 84 cards each, can be purchased at any dry-goods or general-mercantile establishment for an average working-man's weekly salary. For an additional fee, a handsome wooden stereo-scope is also provided so that the dazzling effect of the realistic depictions can be fully enjoyed. Included in the first set are scenes of my lusty pioneer boy-hood on the Great Plains as the winsome, tow-headed son of the great founder Herman Ulysses Zweibel. It features such momentous events as the time Father and I slew 2,874 passenger pigeons in one after-noon; my apprenticeship to the village brazier; my baby sister Agatha's tragic succumbing to the yellow-fever; and several heart-stopping scenes of butter-churning. The second set focuses on the events of my long years as editor and publisher of , including: my intense rivalry with despised editor P. Oliver Gummidge; an reporter's "scoop" of a graft ring at City Hall involving the Mayor himself; and my subsequent killing of the story, firing of the reporter, and collecting of a handsome bribe from the Mayor to keep it all quiet. Finally, the third set looks at my later years. Among the highlights: my court-imposed retirement and decades of illness and convalescence; the nurses I have had; favorite ointments; the time I got the shingles; accidental burials; and my glorious ascension into Heaven. This is just a small sample of the wonders that await you in this most praiseworthy collection of exciting scenes. And the first 500 souls who purchase my stereo-scope autobiography will also receive, free of charge, an additional stereo-scope card series of either "The Crucifixion Of Jesus Christ," "Panoramic Views Of The Erie Canal," or "How Beef Is Cured."