DEARBORN, MI--In a shocking revelation that has rocked Thomas E. Dewey High School, sources in Mrs. Trimble's third-period English class confirmed this week that 17-year-old Jessica Milly will soon begin putting out. At approximately 10:15 a.m. Wednesday, Milly made the watershed announcement to Tanya Harris, her best friend since sixth grade, saying she planned on going all the way with her boyfriend of three months, Josh Gibson. "I didn't think she'd put out until senior year at the earliest," said classmate Eric Dobbratz, adding that the school's entire male population was now far more optimistic about the potential of getting laid before graduation. "I heard she did some stuff with Josh under a blanket at Josh's mom's house, but she didn't get naked or anything and they just rubbed against each other with all their clothes on until Josh got really bad blue balls." "I had no idea she was ready to start spreading for guys," Dobbratz added. "I'm really glad I held out for her. Jessica is really frickin' hot." Milly's level of willingness to put out has reportedly been monitored closely by the student body of Dewey High School over the past three years. Several students, most of whom maintained they heard it from a ton of different people, claimed Milly and Gibson would be doing it for the first time at Andy Wheeler's party Friday night.  "Andy's parents are going to be out of town and the house is super huge," said Heather Jones, who sits behind Kyle Barber in Mr. Jenkins' class and overheard the sophomore describing how everybody was going to be wasted and going at it. "Plus, there's plenty of places where you can do it, like the master bedroom, and they have two different couches in the basement." While many details remained unclear at press time, sources close to Gibson said the 17-year-old is planning on doing it with Milly at least five times on Friday night, and is hoping to try doggy style. Conflicting and hotly disputed reports have surfaced, however, with certain factions insisting Milly will likely dump Gibson and instead put out for a starter on the varsity football team after Friday's home game against Redford North High School. Other possible benefactors of Milly's recent decision to finally let a guy put it all the way inside her reportedly include homecoming king Ryan Hutchens; Jeremy Stoeger, who is really good at guitar; and Sam Robbins, who, although quiet and sort of weird, is said by reliable locker room sources to have a humongous dick. "I don't care who she gives it up to, as long as I get some," junior Henry Goodwin said. "After all the stories about her letting that guy from Dearborn Heights she was dating rub his cock against her pubes a little when she was a sophomore, everyone knew it was only a matter of time." "This is the biggest news since Tina sucked off Blake Whitcomb underneath the bleachers," Goodwin continued. Many upperclassmen concluded Milly's decision to put out was part of a domino effect that began when her friends Julia and Kelly started putting out six months ago; those with knowledge of the situation suspect Milly's decision to go all the way could eventually open the door to juniors Samantha Moss and Melanie Cannon finally giving it up. While most male students were excited by Milly's announcement, others expressed a tempered enthusiasm, recalling that Milly did not lose her virginity after she was felt up by senior Tim Penderman during a ski trip last January. "Even if she does start to put out, she's not going to do it with everybody," said sophomore Jacob Mitchell, adding that Milly would likely still withhold sex from the vast majority of the school's males. "I'd be totally happy if I even got a hand job from Jessica, or got to titty-fuck her." In a related story, several sources who went swimming last summer with Karen Anderson confirmed the senior has a huge bush. :