Item! Actor has a new beau! (Or is it belle? I never was very good at .) The hunky Hollywood star has been spotted around town squiring none other than that gorgeous "Policewoman" ! Now, tongues are wagging at the age difference between the two, but I say nothing should stand in the way of true love.... ever. Asking if is funny is like asking if are good for you. According to my sources, actress is getting skinny.... way too skinny. McBeal turned heads at this year's Emmy Awards when she showed up in a backless dress revealing a protruding from her back. With her own hit show on Fox, McBeal must have plenty of money, so I can't understand why she would deny herself a good meal. You've gotta put some meat on your bones, Ally, we're worried about you! Speaking of Fox, frankly, I don't see what the whole brouhaha is over the new sitcom . In fact, I quite enjoyed it. Mrs. Mary Todd Lincoln has indeed "got back"! What does every house need? A good ! But don't forget to put in ! Talk-show hostess, actress, brassy comedienne and all-around wonder woman has taken up a new hobby.... ! One of my more reliable sources informs me that Rosie has decided the strange-looking rollerskates are just the thing she needs to stay fit and have fun, too. I suppose it will help her keep up with her , as well. Does this mean we'll see more people turning to this truly loco form of locomotion? If anyone can make them popular, Rosie can! Good luck to , who at age 83 is returning to for the first time since 1983's . Make America proud, Mr. Glenn, and I hope you don't die up there. Sorry, ladies, but is now spoken for! That's right, the man who gets millions of women's hearts pumping weekday mornings tied the knot over the weekend to . If you were hoping to snag Matt for yourself, you'll just have to keep your fingers crossed for down the road! It may not be "cool" any more, but I'll take a virgin at over your any day. Sexy songbird has apparently broken it off with star Yankee pitcher . Apparently, Carey was getting tired of her Bronx Beau being on the road all the time. Oh, well, maybe Mariah can channel her sadness over the romantic breakup into another . In the now-you-tell-me department, went on tour again, and I missed it! I can't believe nobody told me! Talk about dis-satisfaction! I've been a huge Stones fan for years and haven't missed a tour since the Steel Wheels tour! It would have been great to see out there, strutting his stuff like it was 1989 all over again. All I can say, Mick, is that I'm sorry I . Readers, you have to promise me something: The next time The Rolling Stones go on tour, you have to tell me. I don't want to lose out again! If I had to choose between and just plain , you'd better believe I'd take frames. But if it's between and , I'll leave the frames behind! Speaking of glasses, wouldn't look a bit less dowdy if she got rid of hers? That's no way for the to present herself! What's all this fuss about ? I don't think deserves any hugs for what he did, but that's a matter that he, and have to deal with. Let the man do his job, for Pete's sake! It's the right thing to do. And, by the way, we're all so sick of hearing about this. Can't we just move on and turn our attention toward more pressing matters.... like whether and are fooling around? Like said, "It's the time of the season..." for scaring! But don't let this Halloween turn into a tragic one. Be sure to play it safe out there, and parents, make sure your kids aren't attacked by . In case you were wondering, I'm going as in this year. Here's looking at you, Sam! Stay safe, and happy haunting!