I didn't know what to expect on that day 15 years ago when I began my journey into motherhood. I had no idea how intense I would feel in those moments that culminated in you becoming a part of our lives forever. It was an occasion full of highs and lows, to be sure, but I'll tell you one thing, kiddo: I wouldn't trade my memories of it for anything, because the day you were conceived was the best day of my life. It was such a beautiful and powerful experience. I had never realized just how wonderful conception would be. That said, I honestly didn't know what I was in for. I've often wished my own mother would have sat me down and talked to me about it the way I am talking to you now. Conceiving was unlike anything I'd ever felt before. It hurt more than I expected, and it seemed like it would never end! But as I gripped the sides of the bed and my screams filled the room, I just had to remind myself that all this was leading up to one very special moment. There were times, in the middle of it all, when I wasn't sure I could take it and I swore I'd never do this again. But that night, as I bit down on my lip, dug my nails into my palms, and tried to control my breathing, my body did things I never could have imagined. Conceiving you changed me physically and emotionally. As I lay there, I felt so vulnerable and exposed, but your father--that man was a rock. He wiped my brow and spoke encouraging words in my ear, telling me how beautiful I was and urging me not to stop. He was so amazing and supportive and there for me in ways I never knew were possible. Looking back on it, I realize he may have been just as nervous as I was, but he sure did his best! It may be hard for you to believe, sweetheart, but if you had seen me then you would have hardly recognized me--my hair wild and disheveled, my whole body shuddering and covered in sweat. Between the noises I was making and the way I was moving, I must have seemed like some kind of wild creature. And in a strange way, I felt like an animal, too. I'll never forget clutching your dad and squeezing him with all the strength I could muster. Gosh, it's just a day you remember forever, sweetie. Not everything went as planned, though. I won't gross you out with all the details about bodily fluids, but there were some complications. Daddy and I weren't quite sure what to do. He tried to help move me into a more comfortable position--on my side, on all fours, squatting. He even got me to try it in the tub, but nothing was working. All along, I had thought I would go the natural route and skip the drugs, but eventually I realized I needed them. I know it's different for every woman, but for me it felt as though I might tear right in half! We had been up for hours, and exhaustion and dehydration were overtaking me. I was scared it was never going to happen and started to doubt whether we had made the right choice in deciding to do it at home. All I wanted was for it to be over so I could rest, but your father--so attentive to my every need--looked me right in the eyes, lifted up one of my legs, and reminded me that I could do this. And then, with one last push, it was all over. Suddenly, motherhood was upon me. Afterward, I was positively glowing. I felt a rush of happiness and relief surge through my body as I gazed into your dad's eyes, his head resting peacefully on my chest. I think about that day all the time, honey. Thank God your father got it all on film.