It's political mania out there, and yours truly has been in the thick of it! Now, I know I shouldn't do politics, but this year has been so spectacular that I had to put in my two cents worth. First we had , which was in San Diego. Why? Maybe that's because San Diego is so close to San Francisco, a city holds dear to his heart, if you catch my drift. At any rate, everything went smashing, and the wonderful Nancy Reagan looked lovely. Then came the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, the city with . Certainly, the convention fell under the shadow of the 1968 Democratic Convention held in Chicago with riots and violence. Well, there was none of that this time! The were on their best behavior, and I think they deserve a big round of applause. Speaking of Chicago, basketball wild man is certainly something, isn't he? Who knew he had a book in him? Not me, for sure. And what a book it is! It's one of those "kiss and tell" books that everyone seems to be so fond of, so don't go reading it looking for pointers on your layup. Apparently, he and , well, you know. I just saw the movie with . It's the classic story, told from the perspective of the maid, and I have only one thing to say: ! Now, don't put all your money on my word, but I'm pretty sure this will be the year for the Pretty Woman. Oh, I'm sorry, it's now Roberts since she divorced that singer. Good for you, Julia! And kudos for a job well done in your movie acting... Good luck with that acceptance speech! Is it just me, or are these just getting weirder? I mean, like those ones with the phone and the desk and the ? Yeah, I thought so. Hey, ! Would you get in touch already? I'm losing faith! What do I have to do to get you to stop by for a chat, throw in some devilishly good from our ? Heck, I'll even throw in the recipe, if that would help! Just don't tell . That is all Twister-ed up... in love! That's right, my sources say the dashing movie star has been seen "around town" with an as-of-yet unidentified lady friend. Congratu-lations, Bill! Don't go chasing any storms, now that you've got a special sweetheart to look after! Ladies! Brace yourselves! is almost underway! Better hold your husband or boyfriend tight, otherwise, you probably won't see them until after the . You know how we men are with our football and pretzels! Sadly, this summer marked the end of 's remarkable career. Apparently, he wants to devote more time to his music. I hear it's a sort of . Well, that's not usually my thing. is more my speed, but if his music has the same style and flourish that he does, I'd probably enjoy it. To a comrade in arms in , a fond farewell. Hey, do they have a replacement for you on yet, John? I just might be available. Just kidding, John--I've got other fish to fry!