Well, 2003 is over. Happy 2004! This is one exciting year for Jackie Harvey. It's a leap year and an election year all rolled into one! What better way to start off a big year than with a big 2003 year-end wrap-up? As an entertainment writer, it's my responsibility to choose the . And unless you were living in a hole, you know the honor goes to none other than the wild and crazy guy himself: ! This year alone, Steve starred in the instant comedy classics , , and . Oh, and lest I forget, he released the long-awaited follow-up to his book . I'm waiting for the paperback edition, but if the book is anywhere near as funny as his hosting of the , it'll be gold. The film event of the year? Who but could breathe life into such an old book? As the cat in the title, he magically prances through the land of imagination. It awoke the kid in me without putting the adult in me to sleep. I can't wait for the sequel! We got him! All the best military operations are named after '80s action films, and this one was no exception. was a smashing success, flushing the out into the open and bringing him to justice. Justice for all! Hooray! This was also the year of the big celebrity love affair, and the biggest of all was the love affair shared by and . Is it just me, though, or does there seem to be a bit of an age difference between those two? Well, it's not for me to judge. Like they say, . Speaking of couples, whatever happened to and in those Radio Shack commercials? Not since has a made such a splash on the small screen, but I haven't seen one of their ads in a long time. I sure hope Huey and Terry aren't planning to get a divorce. That be a tragedy! I finally got around to renting on VHS, and I'm sorry, but it's just without . Save your money and rent something that'll really make your night, like  After three years, is finally over, and it went out with a bang. I don't usually go in for that magic and dragon stuff, but this series was great. Or at least the commercials look great. I haven't seen the movies yet. I still need to watch the first two, and who has the time to sit still for nine hours? Not I! has a new Marathon energy bar. I found out the hard way that it's not the we all remember. Those were chewy and caramel-y and long and delicious. I wish I could recall the Marathon Bar jingle, but all I can dredge up is the song. The fall TV season was quite the train wreck! was in, and then it was out. got uncoupled. was lord of the flops. 's went down in flames. were... I'm still looking for something bad that rhymes with "mullet," but I can't think of anything right now. That's only a few of the season's flops, but I don't want to be too mean. I'm trying out this new writing style, but since it comes at the expense of a lot of decent, hardworking people in showbiz, I don't think I'll do it again. Congrats to and ! Best wishes on your sudden, unexpected marriage! Have you heard that song about the they keep playing on the radio? Every time I hear it, I get thirsty. My favorite milkshake flavor is . Speaking of music, when are we going to get the next installment of ? I've just about worn out my and CDs. Time to bring on the next big star so I know what music to buy. Paris who? If you hadn't heard of until a few months ago, you're not alone. Her show is one of my guilty pleasures. Seeing her work on a farm with is a real hoot. For some reason, I've been getting a lot of unsavory e-mails about Paris lately. Isn't it a shame when people feel the need to drag someone through the mud? Someone out there must be jealous, because Paris fought the odds to make it as an actress. Don't worry, Paris--keep your chin up. I've been the victim of undue cruelty, too. The incident is too painful to go into now, but it involved a and a . 'Nuff said! Well, that's it for this installment of The Outside Scoop. In case you were thinking about missing my next column, it will include an exciting tidbit about a certain sitcom actor and his new greyhound ranch. Until then, take a seat, plant your feet, pop in a good movie, and join me again...on the Outside!