My friends and I were sitting around yesterday having a casual conversation about how the one thing all great actors have in common is that they have all starred in at least one classic piece of cinema. For my good friend Al Pacino it's obviously and . For Robert De Niro there's and . And for Diane Keaton, a no-brainer: . The one actor who truly stumped us, however, was me. Now, I know I'm a good actress. I'm Meryl Streep. I've won two Academy Awards, and I have been nominated for 15. That's a record. But what my friends and I figured out is that the name Meryl Streep isn't really synonymous with one truly unforgettable film. It's weird to think about, but it's undeniably true. Go ahead, try and name a classic movie I've starred in. Not a classic character I've portrayed, mind you, but an overall amazing piece of cinema. You can't. You just can't. Right off the bat, you're probably thinking . That's what my friends and I immediately jumped to also! But let's be honest, isn't really a masterpiece in the same way that, say, or is a masterpiece. It's not a bad movie by any stretch of the imagination; it's actually pretty good. I'd watch it if it were on. But if anything, it's more Dustin Hoffman's movie than Meryl Streep's movie. And when you think Dustin Hoffman, is a distant fourth behind , , and . Look, I'm not trying to ruffle any feathers here. I'm just calling it like it is. Of course, next comes up. Sure. Absolutely. That makes complete sense. But have you actually watched lately? Boy, talk about a movie that has aged well. My performance is very good. No question. Oscar-worthy even. But if it weren't me delivering those long monologues, people would see for what it really is: a fairly routine melodrama, with a Holocaust backstory thrown in to make the love triangle seem less banal. I looked at AFI's top 100 movies list and was No. 91, behind and . And truthfully, all I could say was, "That's about right." So now is when you have to start really digging into my filmography because you're starting to think, "Can it be true that one of this generation's greatest actresses, maybe even the greatest--a national treasure, you might say--has never been in a film as good as , which isn't even Faye Dunaway's best movie?" . Yes! Actually, no. A couple things bother me about . One, it's overrated. Yes, I said it. And two, how long was I in the ? Three, maybe four minutes? Truthfully, I don't really remember being in the at all. (Same goes for .) Then there's which, come on. We all know that movie was kind of the worst. That and ...don't even get me started on . ? We're scraping now, aren't we? . Yeah, 20 years from now people are going to be talking about the film adaptation of . . Look, I like . Solid thriller. Good cast. Not a classic. Oh, and for those of you who want to say ? Please. I don't need your charity. The annoying thing about all of this is that I've worked with directors who have produced some of the finest films in American cinema. I'm just not in any of them. I do a movie with Robert Altman, but it's . Mike Nichols calls me up, not for but . Does anyone in the world other than Mike Nichols own the DVD of ? So here we are. I'm 60 years old without a or to my name. Meryl Streep: "Great actress, okay movies." And by the way, is not a classic. Well, at least not the one I was in.