DENVER--Growing increasingly unsettled at the president-elect's choice of advisors and the prospect of life under a Donald Trump administration, local resident Paul Austin told reporters Monday he was at the point where the thought of Reince Priebus controlling the White House was actually fairly comforting. ITHACA, NY--In the hours since the Republican nominee's stunning election to the nation's highest office Tuesday night, reports have confirmed that, regardless of circumstance, it is not even remotely close to okay to act like Donald Trump. WASHINGTON--In response to widespread criticism that they had failed to predict Donald Trump's victory in the 2016 election, analysts from polling organizations around the nation admitted Thursday they had underestimated the influence of voters' adrenal glands on the presidential race. With the 2016 presidential election now concluded after 18 months, Americans can look back for lessons on how to move forward as a nation. Here's what the nation can learn from this election cycle DENVER--Growing increasingly unsettled at the president-elect's choice of advisors and the prospect of life under a Donald Trump administration, local resident Paul Austin told reporters Monday he was at the point where the thought of Reince Priebus controlling the White House was actually fairly comforting. ITHACA, NY--In the hours since the Republican nominee's stunning election to the nation's highest office Tuesday night, reports have confirmed that, regardless of circumstance, it is not even remotely close to okay to act like Donald Trump. WASHINGTON--Telling reporters they felt completely depleted after spending the past 36 hours contemplating a Donald Trump presidency, Americans across the country admitted Thursday they were unsure whether they would have enough revulsion and horror left in them to agonize over his forthcoming cabinet and court appointments. Here's some advice for talking to your child about the shocking outcome of the 2016 presidential election CHICAGO--Expressing dismay and confusion over voters selecting Donald Trump as the next president of the United States, area liberal Ryan Garlock reportedly told a group of his friends Wednesday that he no longer recognizes his fanciful, wildly inaccurate mental picture of the country he lives in. NEW YORK--During the first brief moment of calm that she had felt since she awoke, local woman Jennifer Gibson's subconscious reportedly fired off a spontaneous reminder Wednesday that Donald Trump will be the nation's next commander-in-chief. WASHINGTON--Explaining that they have finally started to feel a connection with the Democratic Party nominee, millions of defeated and utterly exhausted voters admitted to reporters Wednesday they are now starting to relate to Hillary Clinton. WASHINGTON--Following Donald Trump's stunning victory in the general election early Wednesday morning, political experts confirmed that conditions in the United States are now finally as bad as the Republican nominee has long claimed. DENVER--Growing increasingly unsettled at the president-elect's choice of advisors and the prospect of life under a Donald Trump administration, local resident Paul Austin told reporters Monday he was at the point where the thought of Reince Priebus controlling the White House was actually fairly comforting. ITHACA, NY--In the hours since the Republican nominee's stunning election to the nation's highest office Tuesday night, reports have confirmed that, regardless of circumstance, it is not even remotely close to okay to act like Donald Trump. SAND SPRINGS, OK--Feeling a mixture of intense pride and abject disbelief after news networks called the 2016 presidential election in favor of Donald Trump, local man Terry Williams, who is currently wearing a T-shirt adorned with the word "Jewmerica," told reporters late Tuesday night that he never dreamed he'd see this day during his lifetime. WASHINGTON--Political experts are hailing Donald Trump's historic presidential victory early Wednesday as a resounding declaration that the nation is finally ready to cast off the tyrannical yoke of moderate respect for women that has suffocated the citizens of this country for generations. WASHINGTON--Shattering a barrier long thought unbreakable in the United States, Donald Trump, the 70-year-old billionaire real estate mogul from New York, became the first black-hearted man in history to win the American presidency, in the early hours of Wednesday morning. WASHINGTON--Saying their rosy attitude about the state of the election was not helping anything given what is currently transpiring, sources confirmed Tuesday night that the nation's optimists need to seriously shut the fuck up as soon as humanly fucking possible. NEW YORK--Briskly striding into frame and interrupting a jubilant family meal, CNN anchor Wolf Blitzer reportedly entered the middle of an Olive Garden commercial airing during the network's election coverage Tuesday night to announce a late-breaking election result. The Onion is not intended for readers under 18 years of age. (c) 2017 Onion, Inc. All Rights Reserved.