LOS ANGELES--Saying he hadn't ruled anything out with regards to his next career move, 58-year-old actor Bruce Willis announced this week that he was strongly considering the possibility of starring in more feature films. Willis, whose long list of screen credits includes and , told reporters that while he had appeared in numerous movies already, he was still very much open to the idea of perhaps appearing in more movies, possibly even ones that fall under the genre of action or action-adventure. "For the last 30 years I've made my living acting in movies, and now, going forward, I have to say I'm leaning toward continuing to do so," Willis said on Monday, explaining that if he had to think about what line of work he is most suited for at this stage in his life and career, he would most likely say acting in Hollywood films. "When I finished making my last feature film, I was faced with the decision of what to do next. I mulled it over for a few days, and then I called my agent and said, 'I think I would like to appear in another feature film.' And he said, 'Okay.'" "Nothing is set in stone, of course, but at this point I'm fairly sure that I'm going to look at more acting opportunities, preferably in motion pictures," Willis added. Emphasizing that he hasn't "pulled the trigger yet" on any new projects but is currently exploring several opportunities in the film industry, Willis told reporters that he is particularly attracted to the notion of working on big-budget blockbusters produced by major motion picture studios. The actor noted that while he would definitely entertain offers to star in a suspense or science-fiction film, he would also be willing to consider dramatic or comedic roles as well. Willis said he also would be very open to the idea of reprising roles from previous films, such as his character from his recent action-comedy film , or possibly his character John McClane from the film franchise. In addition, Willis told reporters he would consider taking on roles in a new ensemble comedy or a drama, genres in which he reportedly has some experience. Willis added that he is especially drawn to the possibility of starring in a major motion picture in which he is the top-billed star and the film is marketed as a "Bruce Willis movie." "My agent and I went over the various options for me, and we both decided after long and careful deliberations that, given my interests and prior experience, starring in a Hollywood movie was probably the next logical step for me in my career," Willis told reporters, noting that when he started to mentally map the next few years of his life, he could strongly visualize one or more movies being part of that future. "In other words, if a film studio approached me tomorrow about perhaps starring in another movie, I would probably say, 'Yes, I would like to be in another movie now.'" Noting that he already has made many motion pictures in the past, Willis said that his decision to consider pursuing more opportunities in film was informed by a number of factors. In addition to his longtime interest in screen acting dating back to the early 1980s and 1990s, when he appeared in several television shows and many blockbuster films, Willis said that acting in more movies not only provides an outlet for his creative energies, but also makes sense financially. "I thought about what job I could get paid the most money for doing right now, and I eventually concluded that starring in a Hollywood movie would probably pay the most," the actor said of his inclination to continue in the film industry, explaining that he typically earns tens of millions of dollars per motion picture in addition to perks like free airfare and promotional products. "My wife put it best the other day: I'm 58 years old, I've acted in dozens of films, and I've made over $150 million on movies. So now I could either retire, go in a different career direction, or I could continue making movies." "It's a tough choice, but I can see how making another movie might be the way to go," Willis continued. "And then, after that, I guess I would consider maybe acting in another movie." Willis said that over the next few weeks, he'll continue to discuss the issue with his family, meet with agents, wrap up his current movie projects, and mull things over before officially announcing his next move. "I'm honestly not sure what the future holds, but one thing I do know is that it probably involves acting in more movies," Willis added. "But I don't know, maybe I'm overthinking this."