Have you seen yet? It has got to be the funniest thing I've ever seen! It's a computerized baby, and it dances! Curious as to what all the hoopla was about, I had my intern download it for me, and I was hooked! Sometimes, if no one else is around, I'll do a little dance along with it. If you haven't seen it yet, you should throw on your cyber-bathing suit ASAP and get surfing... on the Net! Old Blue Eyes is now Old Shut Eyes! That's right, the Chairman Of The Board, , has resigned, leaving nothing but memories and a scant 125 albums worth of great, great songs. I know that everyone will always remember him for tunes like "New York, New York," "Chicago," "L.A. Is My Lady," "Grand Rapids (You're A Dame)" and other classic songs named after cities, but I'll always remember him for his warm rendition of the classic "Mrs. Robinson." He really breathed new life into that song. Now, if only someone would breathe life into his cold, dead lungs so that he could sing again! Also in the sad, tragic death department, was killed recently by his wife. I don't know any other details besides what I just told you. In fact, I am embarrassed to say this, but despite the fact that his name is very familiar, I cannot place his face at all. Could someone help me out with this? Who is this Phil Hartman, and what did he play, in movies or television? Even if I can't find out, it's still sad. It's always sad when someone dies. is the luckiest man in the world-he gets to romance delightful star ! The new film features them as a pair of hard-headed opposites who have to work together after crashing on a deserted island. Of course, by the end of the movie, they fall for each other, conjuring up that old Bogey-and-Bacall magic. What I wouldn't give to be the one stepping out for a night in Casablanca with dreamy Anne! Harrison, you are one lucky, lucky fella. This summer is shaping up to be a real scorcher. I'd better break out the ! Did anyone like that last episode? Talk about a stinker. It stank! I mean, what a downer of an episode. But you know what? I already miss it. I just hope the reruns will be enough to tide me over for the rest of my life. Has anyone out there ever pulled a ? I did while playing badminton the other day, and, boy, does it smart! One of my more reliable sources tells me that none other than is slated to appear in a remake of his classic 1986 film . Only this time, he's the principal, and he's up against a young version of himself! The dilemma: Does he go all hardnosed on the kid, or does he go easy, remembering his own crazy youth? It should be the kind of magic we haven't seen from Broderick since the original. Look for cameos by , 's and . I can't wait for that one! With songs like "Summer Of '69" and "Straight From The Heart," is it any wonder that has captured America's fancy? Did you know that Adams, like , is a Canadian? G'day, Bryan, eh? I must confess, it's been nearly 10 years since NBC took it off the air, but I still miss . Saturday nights just haven't been the same without it. Will someone please give her own sitcom? She's too big a talent to waste! ., like his dad , just can't seem to stay out of trouble. Someone in the know tells me that Robert had recently been jailed for an abundance of and . I know that Hollywood stars offer us dreams and thrills, and, sure, they should get some perks for the countless hours of movie magic they provide, but no one, not even Robert Downey Jr., is above the law. Hey, , in case you're aching for a dose of me between columns, I have just the thing for you. This Saturday, I'll be on , Oldies 740 on your AM dial, between 2 and 3 in the afternoon. I'll be spinning my favorite sounds from the '50s, '60s and '70s, as well as bringing you the latest scoop from Tinseltown. If you can't get to a radio, ask a to tape it for you. And, if you don't have a friend who can tape it, don't worry: You can always find me here, doing what I love to do... bringing you the news from the Dream Capital Of The World-Hollywood, USA!