is all over the news again! Devoted Harveyheads may recall that about six months ago, I reported that the former Babe had help of a surgical variety in a certain chest area. Well, I have it on good authority that she recently underwent surgery again, this time to get rid of those "helpers." I, for one, have to say that she is a gorgeous gal with or without any chestal assistance, and I applaud her decision to go . Kudos, Pam! That wry smile, that mischievous grin... It could only be . Call it , call it , call it anything you want, just know that it means one thing for two gorgeous gals: Splitsville! and , stars of the two movies, have announced that they are separating from their respective squeezes, tennis player and frou frou French director . While I am always sorry to see the cast aside so easily, I must admit that I'm glad to see these two beauties back in the dating pond. Hey, ladies, if you need a shoulder to cry on, look me up! On a sadder note, the nation mourns the loss of beloved Cuban ventriloquist . Known as the husband of and the co-star of , Senor Wences won the heart of America using nothing but and . He brought laughs to the lips of millions, and he will be sorely missed. "S'all right?" No, Senor Wences, s'not all right. Looking for a good way to pass the time? How about a ? In the not-just-a-pretty-face department, is sweeping up at the box office in the virtual-reality thriller . Along with co-star , Reeves cleans up the cyber-world by riding cyber-cycles and dodging the grid bugs. I haven't seen it yet, but everyone who has tells me it's pure Hollywood magic! Countdown: Just 27 days til the big opening! Speaking of waiting, I can't wait for to make its way to my town. I've been a fan of the PBS program for about a year now, and I've got an old press photo that I'm just dying to get appraised. Even if it's only worth a dollar, it will still be priceless to me. It used to be that a cost only a dime. Then it was a quarter. Now, it's 50 cents. Guess you can't go home again. According to one of my most trusted Tinseltown informers, is going house hunting! Apparently, her current house (a rental) doesn't allow dogs, so she's looking for a place where she can keep whatever pets she likes. But that's not all. Apparently, the star is eyeballing a place to put her nitrogen tanks so that when she dies, they can freeze her for revival in the future. Actors... They're crazy, but you have to love the dream-factory magic they weave! After months of waiting, is finally available on DVD! Run, don't walk, to your local video store and buy it right now! Oh, how the mighty have fallen. Just a few short years ago, was But now, he's not even good-looking enough to make the magazine's list. No longer hunky enough to crack the top 50? What competition! Looks like Hollywood just keeps getting sexier and sexier! Hollywood bad boy is infamous for his carousing and wild ways. But did you know that he also has a tender side? Word is that Penn, 28, has a soft spot for abandoned children, often going to orphanages and doing impromptu magic and puppet shows. I have it on good authority that this is because, at the age of two, Penn himself was rescued after being raised by a pack of feral dogs in the wilds of . He was taken in by a kind-hearted , and he just wants to give back the kindness that he himself received. God bless you, Mr. Penn! Is there a more talented man alive than ? Well, that's it for this week. Oh, and I'd like everyone to know that the contest is still open. I don't think I was clear about the rules last time, so here they are again: Just send in an essay of 100 words or less (but I won't be too picky), in care of this paper. The winner will be judged on originality and R.Q. (Romance Quotient). Neatness doesn't necessarily count, but remember: If I can't read it, I can't judge it. So, until next time, keep your feet on the ground and save an aisle seat for me!