Everybody knows that and had their baby, . But how come no one has seen it yet? Tom, to use your own words, it's time to . You may think you're protecting its privacy, but you owe it to the people that made you a star to "show them the baby" so they can make up their minds whether or not little Slurry should be left alone. I know that (sung by , no less) is meant for women, but it's so infectious that I start singing along whenever it comes on, which is a lot more often ever since I got myself the CD! Come on by Casa Harvey for a dancing good time sometime. I was hearing more and more about this , but couldn't find anything about him. Well, after watching (I admit it! I'm hooked) one night, I saw that he had a show on about his comedy tour. I gave it a whirl, and you know what? Everyone is right. Dane Cook is an extremely funny man. True, I usually prefer a more family-oriented comedy, but there's room under my tent for all types, from the clean stuff like , to the dirtier stuff like . There's a good joke about relationships...well, you just have to hear it yourself. I won't spoil it. Oh, and he's in a movie with sexy ? I think I'll be first in line. It was a sad day when died, just as he lived, surrounded by a camera crew and lifting up wildlife. I used to crack up my friends by picking up my little Scottie, , and saying "Ooh, crikey! Look at the bite on this one!" Now it seems disrespectful. G'bye, mate. Speaking of the departed, please, take a moment to think about . Her son just died in Bermuda, while she was there to give birth to a new baby. This must be what they mean when they talk about the . I just never knew the circle could be so small. OUT! . IN! . I can't make up my mind. Every time I think I've seen more than enough , a new picture shows up on the magazine racks that blows me away. The only way to figure out when we're is to keep up the constant hype until we honestly can't stand to see her face! It looks like not even reality TV could save them.  and are separating after 14 years, one daughter, and five arrests. Things like this make me . If a couple of carefree celebrities who had it all can't make a go of marriage, then what hope do the rest of us have? A band called " ?" Now I've heard everything! In this time of trouble, what this Christmas needs is a new comedy. My copy of is pretty near worn out. Maybe Santa will deliver? And along with that, can I add a new show to my Christmas wish list? It seems like forever since she's been on television, and while I love , I still miss that sassy, brassy attorney who would sell ad space on her backside if the was right. Oh, and happy to all of our Jewish readers! (Sorry so late!!!) Every once in a while, I have to do the unthinkable and pull out an infamous , in which I tell someone, or something, to cool it! I don't like to do it, especially not publicly, but in this case, I think it can help. The victim this time? Well, I used to be its biggest fan. I'd watch for all the twists, turns, and the cast changes. If I was going to be out of the house, I'd try to record it. Now, I can't even sit through more than five minutes of it. I'm talking about . It's the music. It's way too loud! Turn it down, guys, and maybe, I'll come back. Well, that's all for this installment of the Scoop. I know, it seems too short, but the Scoop needs to snoop in order to get you enough for the next edition. I'll give you a tease, though: , a Subway 12" sub, and a hilariously  ! Until then, I'll see you, up in lights, opening night...on the outside.