My name is Brian but my dad's name is Sgt. Carrelson and he's a Army guy! He has lots of different guns he shoots with his friends in Iraq and they drive tanks too. BOOM BOOM BOOM PCHSSSHTK! VROOMMM! My dad has five different kinds of guns. No seven kinds of guns. He kills bad guys all the time. Like one time he was in the desert and then some bad guys came and he killed them all. When I grow up I want to be a Army guy just like him. But I'll also have lots of knives and be a ninja. Then I'll fight bad guys in Iraq! When my dad went away on the big airplane he said he's coming back soon, and I'm going to see him soon. He said that too when he called on the phone. He told me he's having lots of fun in Iraq. They get to play Xbox and sleep in tents and eat all the junk food they want. I wish I could do that. My dad says they have a Burger King in the Army just like they do here. I love Burger King and chicken tenders are my favorite thing they have there. Sometimes my dad gets to throw grenades. He throws them and then everything explodes, just like in . KABOOM! All the bad guys are all dead. One of my dad's friends got shot in the body and it was bleeding a lot. And then he got taken away in a helicopter. But then they let him go back really fast and start fighting again. I fell off my dirt bike last week and it hurt really bad, but my mom said to be strong like my dad. Nobody can beat my dad! He's the best! Yup. I'm a Army guy, all right. We are given guns and me and the boys shoot at the bad guys and drive around in our Humvees. PAH-PAH-PAH-PAH-PAH, PCHSSSHTK! I can operate five kinds of guns. As a Army guy, I'm part of the strongest fighting force on earth. Boy, we have a lot of firepower--so much, it's hard to keep track sometimes. Out on patrol a couple days ago, some bad guys tried to pick a fight with us, and we let rip with everything we got. I don't know how many there were, but I do believe we killed every last one of them. I gotta say I wouldn't mind my son growing up to be a Army guy one day. Follow in his dad's footsteps. Hope we're not still in Iraq, though. Of course, I planned to be back home by now. It was eight months, then 12, then 16. They keep telling me I'll be home soon, anyhow. Can't complain too much, because we got most everything you could ever want over here. Air- conditioned tents? Check. Hot Pockets and Red Bull? Yup. Xbox? We got two. They even got a Burger King out here. It doesn't have all the same stuff as a normal one, but you can still get a Whopper, at least. It's nice to have things that remind you of home, since you forget about stuff like that when you're out here bringing the fight, tossing grenades, killing bad guys like everyone's Schwarzenegger. KABLAAAM, you know. But it's been a rough year. We had a guy go down a couple weeks ago, I thought he was dead for sure. Thought we were all dead. But he shows up a few weeks later with a note from the doc saying he's good to go. Told him it's time to get back in the fight because "he's a Army guy, that's what Army guys do." And we need new guys pretty bad. Hopefully it won't be too long before I get home, see the wife and kid, tear it up on the dirtbikes and all that. I wanna make sure I get as much time with my son as I can, since I still got at least another tour to do. He's the best.