Item! Who's that fresh-faced pitchman enthusiastically extolling the virtues of ? Why, it's none other than ! "Do you want one? Do you?" Cuba, after seeing you get so excited about the drink, screaming and jumping up and down on that one fella's desk, I know I sure did! So much so, in fact, that I had one. And you know what? It's pretty darn good! If it hadn't been for Mr. Gooding Jr, I never would have tried it. I tip my hat to you, Cuba (pronounced KOO-buh), for making me get off my rump and try something exciting and new. Word on the Tinseltown grapevine is that will be the next TV classic to make the leap to the big screen. No official word yet on who will be cast in the Alex P. Keaton role ( , perhaps?), but rumor has it that original Alex will play the father this time around. Stay tuned for details! If you possibly can, be sure to pick up a copy of the latest issue of magazine... It's got a picture of in it. Wasn't that an exciting ? And what a halftime show! Get and to tap-dance together on a giant float, and you're guaranteed pure entertainment magic! And then there's the real reason everyone watches the Super Bowl-- ! Which was your favorite? The one with the talking dog? The one with the talking lizard? Or perhaps the one with the talking penguin? I say they're all winners! How do these keep coming up with new animals to make talk? It's amazing! It's a good thing the Super Bowl isn't on every day, because if it were, I'd never leave the house! Lately, I've been thinking that aren't such a bad idea after all. is hot hot hot, and no less than has thrown his hat into the ring! His movie, , is about a ragtag group of commandos led by Sgt. Rock (Tom Hanks), who must go behind enemy lines to rescue POW Pvt. Benjamin (Ben Affleck). Some powerful, powerful stuff there. Also entering the fray is newcomer , whose movie is called . I probably won't see that one, since it has nothing to do with Spielberg, but I've heard it's pretty good. By the way, as long as they're making movies about The Big One, I'd love to see a movie about . Now there's an individual richly deserving of the Hollywood treatment. According to recently published medical findings, are the ones who started this whole AIDS thing. Come on, chimps, we humans are doing our part to stop this terrible disease, and so should you... wear a condom! Remember and ? Well, I have it on good authority that the child is a super-baby with genius intelligence! The little tyke is only nine months old, and already she's doing arithmetic and reading at a fifth-grade level! If you've followed Jodie's career like I have, this should come as no surprise. She is, after all, one of the nation's best and brightest. Plus, as seen in , she has knowledge of . Hmm... No one knows who the father is... You don't suppose? No, that's too crazy, even for ! Or is it? People certainly seem to be going nutty over , and I've gotta tell you, I just don't get it. It's so obviously fake, but people don't seem to realize that. Wake up, people! Where's the sportsmanship? Where's the competition? It's all just a big sham! Speaking of sports, I recently ordered , and I have to say, I'm Tae-Hooked! Any workout system that can get in the terrific shape he's in is all right by me. are on their way, and are they ever spectacular! For example, has a new movie coming out called , in which she is a leggy gangster's moll who suddenly has to take care of a sassy, streetwise kid. Could this be as big as ? Let's keep our fingers crossed for her! Word on the street is that Hollywood's next $20 million man is none other than rubber-faced funnyman and comeback kid . White-hot thanks to his recent smash-hit comedy , Winkler can pretty much pick and choose his roles these days. What's next on Winkler's plate? My sources say that he's eyeing a remake of the 1990 classic . Say, it sure has been a wonderfully warm winter this year. If I had my druthers, all winters would be this balmy. Hooray for ! vs. : Which is your favorite? I used to prefer the Boys, but lately I've been more "in sync" with N'Sync. But whichever you prefer, make no mistake, both bands have so much heart and soul that it just bursts forth... song-style. Well, faithful readers, that wraps up another edition of The Outside Scoop. Just remember, when you have those winter blahs, Dr. Harvey has just the cure: a spoonful of love and a heaping dose of . That'll pick your chin up in a hurry, I promise!