NEW YORK--Sources are confirming that a sad fucking loser, who many speculate has no friends or anyone in his life to talk to, is currently attending a 1:30 p.m. screening of the film all by himself. The poor bastard reportedly purchased his single ticket from a kiosk inside the theater complex, ordered a medium popcorn, a pack of Twizzlers, and a medium Diet Coke from the concession stand, and then proceeded to meticulously scout out a seat near the front of the theater, where, according to the pathetic dork, "nobody really bothers you." Sources have confirmed that the only people the man has talked to today are movie theater employees. "I like going to movies alone, especially during the day when it's not too crowded," said the sad man, who attended the first movie by himself three years ago, just last week saw alone, and, good Christ, made plans with himself to see on opening day last month. "It's relaxing." "I'm not expecting too much from , but it should be fun," added the heartbreakingly defeated man, who sources believe must have given up on meaningful relationships long ago. "I think Catherine Zeta-Jones is in this one." Staring utterly and completely alone at the movie screen in front of him, onlookers confirmed that the man opened his pack of Twizzlers, began eating them one by one, and seemed visibly engaged with the pre-movie trivia as well as the behind-the-scenes look at the new Showtime series . In a sight that many later called "devastating," the sad-as-hell individual who wasn't sharing his moviegoing experience with anyone was the only one in the theater to laugh out loud at the preview for Martin Scorsese's and looked visibly surprised and intrigued when the words "Directed by Woody Allen" appeared toward the end of the trailer for . In addition, sources confirmed the poor sonofabitch acted slightly upset--as if his moviegoing experience had been disturbed--when he had to sit up in his chair and make room for two other patrons who wanted to get by him to get to their seats. "I like the previews," said the man, who, deep inside, must be--just be--fucking miserable. "I don't care when there are a lot of them. At night sometimes I'll just sit [alone] on my bed and watch movie trailers on my computer." "Sometimes I wish that the film that was about to come on the movie screen were one of the ones from the previews; wouldn't that be cool if that happened once?" the man continued, in what reports indicate could possibly be one of the most utterly pathetic sentences ever uttered by a human being. According to witnesses, the depressing loser, who was the youngest person at the matinee screening by a good 30 years, shifted in his seat as the movie began, got comfortable, and began sipping his soft drink and eating his popcorn, later saying that he likes to eat candy first and popcorn second so that the popcorn lasts through most of the film. The man also took care to shut off his cell phone and place it in the backpack on the seat next to his, which, witnesses confirmed, made it seem as if his backpack was his closest friend. The sad sack then watched the two-hour action-comedy all by himself, giggling at several Bruce Willis lines, but for the most part staring blankly at the movie screen. When the closing credits began to roll, the man grabbed his backpack and was the first one to leave the theater. "It was okay," the man, who has reportedly reached an old enough age where it's not inconceivable that he'll be alone all his life, said. "Nothing special." At press time, the heartbreaking loser had entered his apartment, sat on his couch, sighed, and turned on his television.