Item! What do you get when you take the brightest television stars, put them in the best theater imaginable and let the cameras roll? No, it's not a , but rather the greatest awards show of the summer! I'm talking, of course, about the , a celebration of the art of television. I usually try to prepare for the Emmys by watching a lot of , but this year I had a lot of to do, so I didn't get much of a chance to get myself in the tube mood. Turns out I didn't need it. has really proven himself to be the heir to the when it comes to being a natural in front of the camera. The night wasn't all about good feelings, though. I was sad because was robbed! It made me realize how quickly Hollywood can turn its back on a great show. It went away soon enough when won for Best Lead Actress in a Miniseries or Movie, though. That makes an and an Emmy for Helga this year, making 2007 the official Year of Miren! Kudos to the for making the tough decision to go green this year. The was offset by planting a tree somewhere in Oregon. What a lucky tree! By the way, I'm considering going green myself. I've always been an avid fan of , but now I'm thinking about starting a compost pile. I'm not too keen on keeping a bunch of stinky and around the house, but if it saves a tree, I'm willing to do my part. Item! Speaking of television, the is finally here! It looks like there's a ton of new shows to capture the imagination, and I can't wait to roll up my sleeves and dive right in! is back, and I couldn't be happier. And another season of ? Super-cool! The new lineup has me thinking: Could Monday be the next Thursday and CBS be the next NBC, with NBC becoming the next ABC? What's been up to these days? I see her in makeup ads, but I don't see nearly enough of her where she belongs, on the big screen. Come on, Hollywood! Wake up and smell the casting! Item! Besides , you know who else has more than meets the eye? Actor ! From the moment I saw him in , I thought to myself, "There's a kid to keep my eye on." And I was right! With two blockbusters under his belt this year, I think this is really his year. I understand that Mr. LaBoof is , so mazel tov to you, young man! Now that the dust has cleared, I am beginning to think I was a little hard on . It's hard to be an and not hold celebrities up to certain standards. But now that she's pretty much done for, I am going to make a promise. Unless there is some gossip so great that I can't possibly keep it inside, I will not mention her name until she gets another No. 1 movie. Deal? Item! I'm just gripped by , the new World War II documentary by TV filmmaker . Before watching it, I was on the fence about whether those who fought were the greatest generation. Now, I am 100 percent sold. Thanks, , and keep up the good work! Do they still make ? Good exercise should never go out of style. Item! Seems that exonerated murder suspect is in legal trouble again...this time for unpaid parking tickets! Apparently the Juice had been meaning to pay the tickets, but was just distracted, and now has to pay the tickets or face a higher fine! That's what you get when you walk on the wrong side of , O.J.! I think I'm going to spend my next vacation in . Everyone's always talking about how lovely it is. Item! What's the deal with all these books about ? You can't even walk into a bookstore without running into a stack of them. What about cats? I have three cats and a lot of ideas. Well, that wraps it up for another edition of the Scoop! Check in next time when I have a great story about , a trip to the pharmacist, an expired prescription, and a case of mistaken identity. Until then, I'll see you...on the outside!