Has heavyweight funnyman finally found love? According to my reliable sources, he sure has! The grapevine tells me that Carrey has been spotted about town on the arm of . To date, they've gone bowling, eaten pizza-hold the anchovies!-and taken in a movie. Honestly, I can't think of a better match than those two. I mean, can you imagine the jokes? Oh, to be a fly on the wall on one of their dates! Hunky , last seen playing , has landed the role of his lifetime. The buzz is that Pit will play none other than in an upcoming movie. Now, he won't actually Jesus Christ, but he will play a character whose life parallels His. It will be done as an -a lesser-known and underused cinematic device in which one thing stands for something else. It's too exciting for words! I thought I'd wait for all the to die down before seeing (that's the only way to maintain journalistic integrity), but I finally couldn't wait any longer! And guess what? I was captivated! The tragedy of the ship that could not be saved by all its beauty and luster! Those who died just because they were poor! Those poor who never knew how good they had it! And the tragic love between and , which would have lasted for all eternity if not for the sinking of that great ship! I admit, it made me cry like a baby, and this is coming from the man who made it through without shedding a single tear! If you ask me, this movie is on a collision course-with an Oscar! In the Help A Friend In Need Department, did anyone happen to tape two weeks ago? Normally, I never miss it, but I'd finally set up a date with a I'd had my eye on for months, and the only night she was free was Sunday. Well, she wound up getting a at the very last minute and didn't show up for our date at . (I stood around for two hours!) So, I missed my favorite show all for nothing, and no one I know seems to have taped it. This is why I'm turning to you, faithful readers. If you mail it to me, I promise I'll return it in good shape, along with . Anyone? As for the identity of the , I'm afraid it's strictly MYOB. That is, until there's something more concrete. are fine, but I'll stick to collecting any day. I've learned more from my hobby than all the Beanie Baby collectors combined have learned from theirs! Uh-oh, I think I just opened the flood gates for a lot of angry letters from Beanie Baby enthusiasts! Hey, I did say that Beanie Babies are fine, so take it easy on me, please! I have it on good authority that super is the top contender for the role of in the upcoming movie. Now, if there's a better Betty than Sandra Bullock, Jackie Harvey hasn't seen her. Looks, style, brains, talent-Sandra has it all! I wonder if they're looking for a dashing young to play David Banner. I'm just kidding, of course! Then again, if I did get the part, I'd have the chance to kiss Sandra Bullock, a very tempting proposition indeed. (I think I'd need at least 20 or 30 takes to get that scene right!) I was as surprised as anyone to hear that the got poor ratings. I was positively riveted! I love all the events: luge, speed skating, slalom, even curling! But most of all, I love figure skating. The grace and poise of those skaters is astounding. So, to all of you who didn't support the Olympics this year, shame on you! I don't know what you were thinking, but it makes me ashamed to be . (Only for a second, though, because this is the greatest country in the world.) I just can't stop snacking on lately! If I'm not careful, I'm going to blow up like a balloon. Goodbye lazy Sunday afternoons, hello exercycle! Well, that's it for this installment of . And remember: If you see a glow to the West, don't be alarmed. It's probably just the magic lights of Tinseltown. Or, as some people call it, Hollywood!