WASHINGTON--Ten minutes into oral arguments over whether or not homosexuals should be allowed to marry one another, a visibly confounded Supreme Court stopped legal proceedings Tuesday and ruled that gay marriage was "perfectly fine" and that the court could "care less who marries whom." "Yeah, of course gay men and women can get married. Who gives a shit?" said Chief Justice John Roberts, who interrupted attorney Charles Cooper's opening statement defending Proposition 8, which rescinded same-sex couples' right to marry in California. "Why are we even seriously discussing this?" "Does anyone else up here care about this?" Roberts added as his eight colleagues began shaking their heads and saying, "No," "Nah," and "I also don't care about this." "Great. Same-sex marriage is legal in the United States of America. Do we have anything of actual import on the docket, or are we done for the day?" Before Roberts officially ended proceedings, sources confirmed that all nine justices were reportedly dumbfounded, asking why the case was even coming before them and wondering aloud if some sort of mistake had been made. Calling marriage equality a "no-brainer," members of the High Court appeared not just confused but irritated when Proposition 8 defenders argued that gay marriage was not a national issue but a state matter. Moreover, when Attorney Cooper said that gay marriage could harm the moral fabric of the country and hurt the institution of marriage, Associate Justice Sotomayor asked, "What are you even talking about?" while Justice Anthony Kennedy reportedly muttered, "You got to be fucking kidding me," under his breath. "I have to interject, Mr. Cooper," Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said as the attorney argued that the government has legitimate reasons to discourage same-sex couples from getting married. "Do you honestly care this much about this issue? Because if you do, you're a real goddamn idiot. Actually, you sound as dumb as dog shit, and you are wasting our time." "Should gay marriage be legal?" Ginsburg continued. "Yes. Done. Case closed. Goodbye. Christ, were we seriously scheduled to spend the next few months debating ?" Even the typically conservative wing of the court maintained that, despite their personal views, it would be "downright silly" for them to rule that same-sex marriage was unconstitutional. "I'm a strict Originalist, Mr. Cooper, and I'm looking at a 14th Amendment that forbids any state from denying any person equal protection of the law," Associate Justice Antonin Scalia said. "So, unless we are the most uncivilized society on the face of God's green earth, I think we can all agree that a gay person is in fact a person. So what I'm saying is, who the fuck are we to tell a person who he or she can get married to? This is dumb. Can we talk about a real case now, please?" Before adjourning the court, Roberts said there would be no official opinion on the case because it's just "common goddamn sense," and then addressed gay men and women directly. "Get married, don't get married, do whatever you want," Roberts said. "It's the opinion of this court that we don't give two shits what you do." "C'mon, let's go get some food," added Roberts, as the eight other justices followed him out the door.