CAMDEN, ME--Longtime acquaintances confirmed to reporters this week that local man Michael Husmer, an unambitious 29-year-old loser who leads an enjoyable and fulfilling life, still lives in his hometown and has no desire to leave. Claiming that the aimless slouch has never resided more than two hours from his parents and still hangs out with friends from high school, sources close to Husmer reported that the man, who has meaningful, lasting personal relationships and a healthy work-life balance, is an unmotivated washout who's perfectly comfortable being a nobody for the rest of his life. "I've known Mike my whole life and he's a good guy, but it's pretty pathetic that he's still living on the same street he grew up on and experiencing a deep sense of personal satisfaction," childhood friend David Gorman said of the unaspiring, completely gratified do-nothing. "As soon as Mike graduated from college, he moved back home and started working at a local insurance firm. Now, he's nearly 30 years old, living in the exact same town he was born in, working at the same small-time job, and is extremely contented in all aspects of his home and professional lives. It's really sad." "I don't know how anyone could let themselves end up like that," Gorman continued. "But he seems perfectly fine being nothing more than a genuinely happy deadbeat for the rest of his life." Former high school classmates confirmed that Husmer has seemingly few aspirations in life, citing occasional depressing run-ins with the personally content townie during visits back home, as well as embarrassing Facebook photos in which the smiling dud appears alongside family members whom he sees regularly and appreciates and enjoys close, long-lasting relationships with. Additionally, pointing to the intimate, enduring connections he's developed with his wife, parents, siblings, and neighbors, sources reported that Husmer's life is "pretty humiliating" on multiple levels. In particular, those familiar with the pitiful man, who is able to afford a comfortable lifestyle without going into debt, confirmed that he resides just two blocks from the home he grew up in, miles away from anything worthwhile, like high-priced bars and clubs. In fact, sources stated that the pathetic loafer has never had any interest in moving to even a nearby major city, despite the fact that he has nothing better to do than "sit around all day" being an involved member of his community and using his ample free time to follow pursuits that give him genuine pleasure. Former classmates also confirmed that the underachiever is apparently resigned to going to his little small-time, stable, extremely fulfilling job in town each day and has zero ambitions to leave his position and pursue a more prestigious and soul-crushing career path in a real city. "I honestly don't get Mike--does he even want to get out of that backwater town and try to make something of himself, or does he want to just waste his time feeling pleased with the pace and content of his life and enjoying his existence?" high school friend Caitlin Sese said of the man who gets eight hours of sleep per night and has time after work to see his loved ones and take care of his health. "Everyone else left Camden as soon as possible and is consumed by a deep sense of apprehension about getting ahead, but he's still hanging around the same places from high school, focusing on the things that matter most to him, and existing as a relaxed, easygoing person who's fun to be around. I can't imagine anything sadder than that." "It's almost like he's saying, 'I don't give a shit--I just want to be an emotionally stable husband and father who's not obsessed with climbing the corporate ladder and impressing complete strangers with my job title,'" Sese added. "Pathetic." According to relatives who moved thousands of miles away and are currently alienated from much of the family, Husmer has never once taken a major professional or financial risk, choosing instead to "coast through life" by putting considerable time and effort into his rewarding marriage, playing an active role in his two children's lives, and being sincerely thankful for what he has in this world. Moreover, several cousins who rely on medication to treat anxiety related to their perceived social status and relative wealth compared to childhood friends confirmed to reporters that Husmer is unlikely to change at this point, and may in fact remain a good-natured and highly fulfilled layabout for the rest of his life. "I'm just glad I got out of there and didn't end up like Mike," said Husmer's cousin Amary Martin, 33, an attorney at a large law firm who hasn't seen Husmer, her closest childhood playmate, for nearly six years. "The last thing I'd ever want is to have a loving family nearby, feel a sense of pleasure when reflecting on my life, and be the big failure that everyone runs into when they visit home once a year for the holidays." "Just look at that loser with his contented grin and positive outlook day in and day out," she added. "The poor guy doesn't even know how bad he has it."