LONGVIEW, TX--Area pedophile Dwight Sanderson said Monday that his interest in getting to know and eventually meeting MySpace.com member "Courtneee" has significantly declined after a closer read of the "lame" hobbies and "self-involved" blog entries on the 13-year-old's profile. According to Sanderson, 47, Courtneee's picture caught his eye while he was searching the Judson Middle School MySpace community and found her  "Gemini_diva" page. "At first, she seemed like my type of girl--innocent-looking, single, and, best of all, she lives right nearby," he said. Sanderson continued: "Her profile seemed very enticing at first. She plays softball in the same park that I always hang around in. But right before I was going to leave her a private message, I decided to check out her latest blog post." He said the 1,500-word entry "droned on and on" about everything from dealing with her great-grandmother's death last year to hopes for her new job as class treasurer. "I'm looking for a cell-phone number and a home address, not your life story,"  he said. Though admittedly discouraged, Sanderson, who classifies himself as "not very picky," said he still hoped that Courtneee could play a small, fleeting part in his future. "I'm an optimist, even though I've been burned by girls like Courtneee in the past. You think you know everything about them--their dark secrets, their heroes, their class schedule--but they end up betraying your confidence and talking about your relationship behind your back to any authority figure who'll listen," Sanderson said. Sanderson pointed out several other  "red flags" in Courtneee's profile, including "pathetic, almost obsessive" blog entries about her ex-crush, the fact that her "Interests and Personality" section mentions that she might want to have children someday, and her terrible taste in movies. "I'm used to getting involved with younger, less mature women, but she's got the sense of humor of an 8-year-old," Sanderson said. "I can't bring myself to pretend to like , even to establish a base of shared interests, build  rapport, and eventually earn her complete trust." "Also, one of her friends left a recent comment accusing her of being a 'big-mouth who likes to spread rumors,'" Sanderson added. "I can't tell you how big a turnoff that is for me." According to Sanderson, the most discouraging revelation came when he viewed Courtneee's "More Pics" section, in which she reportedly looks "way older" than she does in her featured front-page photo. "When I saw the other pictures, I was like, 'How old is this girl, 15?'" Sanderson said. "In these pictures, she had braces, acne, noticeable breasts--nothing like the baby-faced little girl she appeared to be on her main page. She probably hasn't updated that picture in a year and a half." Though he made a legally binding promise to himself and law-enforcement officials that he would never pursue another relationship like this, Sanderson says he nonetheless plans to "give it a shot." "Internet dating can be risky," he said, "but at my age, and their age, it's really the only way."