OSN shares its expert analysis on the teams that will come away with victory in this weekend's NFL Week One games: -- The Broncos will win this game in a 49-27 rout of the Ravens, in which Peyton Manning will be 27-42 and throw for 462 yards, 7 touchdowns, and 0 interceptions. The Ravens will struggle behind 2 interceptions from Joe Flacco and a meek 36-yard performance from Ray Rice. -- Expect the Patriots to jump to an early lead and then frequently add to that lead for the entire game. -- Expect Cleveland to edge out Miami in spite of a hostile home crowd. -- Real winner is the NFL for sustaining teams in the Charlotte and Seattle markets. -- Expect the Bears to open their season with a clear statement that they will get their fans' hopes up and then crush them at the end of the season. -- A narrow Detroit victory will represent only the first volley in this season's hard-fought battle for third place in the NFC North. -- Darrius Heyward-Bey gets revenge against the team that drafted him seventh overall and gave him $23.5 million in guaranteed money. -- Preview of what could be a classic AFC Championship match-up in seven years. -- The Falcons will exploit the glaring holes in the Saints defense slightly more often than the Saints exploit the glaring holes in the Falcons' defense. -- It seems like a huge upset, but Onion Sports is going out on a limb and predicting that the Bucs' defense will at some point find a flaw in Geno Smith's high-octane passing game. -- The Steelers will just barely edge out the Titans in a tight battle between two defenses, two offenses, and two special teams units. -- The Packers are hungry to avenge last year's season-ending loss to the 49ers and by most accounts, motivation is very important in football. -- Daryl Richardson will run wild over a porous Arizona defense, leaving the Cardinals in an insurmountable 0-1 hole to start the season. -- Onion Sports isn't watching this game, and we don't give a shit who wins. -- With a new head coach this season, the Eagles will know that the pressure is on, so expect them to completely wilt in a 30-point blowout. -- The Texans will easily handle the Chargers while only losing several dozen players to season-ending injuries.