Would-be millionaire-marryer is going to be taking it all off in an upcoming issue of ! I have it on good authority that the bronzed, leathery bride of will be taking a vow of full-frontal nudity in an upcoming issue of the racy magazine. Do I want to see what was underneath that nationally televised bridal gown? I do! ? It could happen. Hey, who took off everyone's cable? What a bunch of meanies! Who would shut out the that Walt built? And on night, no less! The guilty party is that Time Warner-owning billionaire and his wife, leggy liberal . Those monopolistic cowards. Entertainment doesn't belong to the big-money fatcats-It belongs to ! Is the nation sleeping, or have we all forgotten that we should be in the throes of right about now? Boy, the last month sure has seen one wild roller-coaster ride on . The Dow Jones has gone up and down like a bobber being grabbed by a trout! If I had any money tied up in the stock market, I'd probably be dead from high blood pressure! That's why I'm going to offer you 's prime investment tip: Put half your money into savings, a quarter of it into a nice high-yield CD, and the last quarter into government bonds. I've always been a cat person, but I like , too. I'm not sure what all the hubbub over is about. What's so bad about having a carrot the size of a ? Just think of the enhanced abilities we could get from eating those wonder foodstuffs. Why, we'll be a race of super-humans! I don't know about you, but I'd sure like to have and the ability to dunk. , best known for playing Archie Bunker and heading the world's largest Catholic diocese, has passed away. Who else can make the claim that they soothed the world with spiritual salve and tickled our collective funnybone? He was a wonderful man, and no can ever take that away from us. Hey, everyone, after months of agonized waiting, is finally out on video! Now you can see Luke, Leia, and that loveable Chewie swing into action in the comfort of your own home! I bought two copies, one to watch and one for . With all the news about the , I suppose I should mention that the world wide web is being sued by the rock band . Unfortunately, I don't know what for. It's definitely news, though, and so long as something is news, I should mention it. For more information, consult  Dishy actress , who plays The Weather Girl in the upcoming can't-miss blockbuster , apparently was involved in a hit-and-run incident. This wouldn't be the first time. She's already pulled a hit and run ! Who wants to be a VJ? Jackie Harvey, that's who! MTV, if you're listening, I'm your man. From ABC to ZZ Top, I've got the goods to introduce all the hottest videos the has to offer. Speaking of hot, the summer hasn't even begun yet, and the race for the summer's big movie is already heating up! There's , , and the sizzling new film, . And I'm sure 's got something great cooked up for us, as always. I have it on good authority, though, that the pick of the litter is going to be , an action-comedy about a pair of wisecracking, cocaine-smiggling marlins in the Florida Keys. Wait: Did I say "smiggling"? I meant "smuggling"! Oh, Jackie, you forgot to put on your this morning! Well, that's all the space I have for now. It seems so unfair. I didn't even get around to mentioning , or the "Will You Marry Me?" compu-virus, or even the latest on those rumors. But that's why this is a regular column-so I can keep dishing out the dirt you keep coming back for, time after time. So, until next time, this is Jackie Harvey, shielding his eyes from the blinding glare of !