Good afternoon, sir. Go ahead and roll your window all the way down for me. My name is Officer Daniel McEwen from the Greene County Police Department. Now, do you know why I'm pulling you over today, being overly aggressive, and charging you with a felony count of assaulting a police officer? I'm going to need to see your driver's license, vehicle registration, and proof of insurance. Thank you, sir. Now, just sit tight in your car while I take a look here and grow increasingly hostile. I'm just going to start addressing you in an unmistakably threatening tone that is specifically meant to intimidate and provoke, and then drastically escalate the situation so that it quickly gets out of hand. Are you aware of the speed limit on this road, sir? It's 35. I had you clocked at 52 miles per hour, which is why I had to stop you and exhibit a nakedly confrontational, antagonistic, and condescending attitude, practically daring you to challenge my authority in any way whatsoever. You can't be driving that fast around here, so I'm going to have to write you a ticket and then violently place you under arrest the moment you do or say anything that isn't in complete and utter compliance--or which could even be remotely construed as noncompliant--with every single instruction I give to you. Do you understand all that, sir? If you have any questions about this ticket, I'd be happy to wildly overreact to anything you say that shows the slightest hint of resentment, annoyance, or resistance. Really, while you have me here, I can easily interpret any snide remark or frustrated comment as a potential threat to my safety--even so much as an angry look--and respond in a disproportionately combative way by erupting in unwarranted rage, taking out either my 50,000-volt Taser or my handgun, and pointing it directly at you through the driver's side window. Now, I have to head back to my patrol car real quick, so please bear with me here for a few minutes. Then you can be on your way to jail in no time as soon as I come back and forcibly remove you from your vehicle, slam you into the asphalt, cuff you, and jam my knee into your back as I radio in that I need backup right away because you're resisting arrest--all the while both outright ignoring your vocalized concerns for your safety and directing my own petty, barbed insults at you. Just so we're on the same page here, you'll be getting three points on your license for speeding and also assault charges that carry a minimum sentence of one year in prison, but you'll be assumed guilty of both while I automatically receive the benefit of the doubt despite any and all evidence to the contrary. You know what, why don't you step out of the car, sir? And put that goddamn cell phone away.