Two months ago, I stood alongside President Obama as he announced my nomination to the U.S. Supreme Court. Needless to say, it was a great honor. I've spent 30 years in public service, and without a doubt, the proudest moment of my career came that day in the White House Rose Garden when the president introduced me as his choice to join the highest court in the land. I remain truly grateful to him for this opportunity, and to all those in my life who helped me get to where I am today. Quick question, though: Anyone know what I'm supposed to be doing right now? There were a lot of interviews and briefings leading up to my selection as the nominee, and I sort of assumed things would just keep moving right along, but that hasn't been the case. Not sure if you've noticed, but things have kind of quieted down lately, nomination-wise. Over the past nine weeks, I've paid visits to quite a few senators, and I'd be happy to keep that up if need be--more than happy, really. I guess what I'm wondering is whether there's anything else I ought to be doing on my end to get the ball rolling. Should I make a few calls to members of the Judiciary Committee or something? Or should I just hang tight? Any direction on this would be really helpful. Just throwing it out there, but is there any work I should be getting started on? In order to get a jump on things, I mean? To tell you the truth, it's been a while since I've heard anyone mention anything about confirmation hearings--anybody out there know of any developments on that front? I did those prep sessions a ways back and felt pretty confident about things, so just in case maybe anyone had any doubts, I personally feel ready to move forward with that part of the process anytime. If, when you have a minute, you could let me know how that's all shaping up and maybe what I can do to expedite things, I'd appreciate it. No rush or anything, though. Just thought I'd ask. And just to let you know, I'm really happy to work around other people's schedules. It's no problem at all, really. I pretty much cleared my schedule for the next few months, and I can move any of the remaining stuff around fairly easily, so you just name a time and a place for meetings or hearings or anything, and I'll be there. Also, just throwing it out there, but is there any work I should be getting started on? In order to get a jump on things, I mean? I'd be happy to look over some briefs or sit in on the justices' oral arguments if that makes sense. Whatever I can do to help. As it stands, I'm still working at my old job. I suppose I'll just keep doing that until I hear otherwise. I'm completely fine with that, if that's what you want. Or I could go ahead and put in my notice. Glad to do whichever. But it would be good to know so I can give people there a heads-up about what's going on. Also, it would be good to be able to keep my family posted about all this stuff, too. You know, just for planning purposes. And while I have your ear, is there somewhere I'm supposed to be right now? During the initial vetting process, there was an aide who would pick me up and take me between Capitol Hill and the White House, but she stopped showing up after a little bit. Not sure where she is now. Hey, I can get between those places on my own, no problem, that's not an issue--but I guess I'm just unclear whether I still need to be doing that right now, since I haven't really heard much from anyone. Just looking for someone to give me a nudge in the right direction. As a reminder, I do keep my phone on and check for messages regularly. I thought maybe I had missed some calls, but I'm looking now and it appears I haven't. Anyhow, I'm here if you need me. Everyone has my current contact information, right? Best number's still (202) 216-7460. Don't hesitate to be in touch. It's no bother at all, honestly. I'll definitely be around. Thanks.