BOCA RATON, FL--Saying that the high-value target represented a major threat to their most vital objectives, Obama administration officials confirmed tonight that former governor Mitt Romney was killed by a predator drone while attending a presidential debate at Lynn University. Sources said the drone attack, which occurred at approximately 10:10 p.m. Monday night, obliterated Romney in the middle of a statement on Chinese-purchased U.S. securities, sending his dismembered limbs and internal organs into the audience and leaving a smoking pile of charred flesh and bone in his seat. "The information we have received from military personnel in the field indicate that tonight's drone strike took out Mitt Romney, a former businessman the Obama administration has long considered a serious danger, especially in past few weeks," said press secretary Jay Carney, describing the operation as "an unmitigated success." "The president personally authorized the strike earlier this evening, and as soon as we had visual confirmation that the target in the drone's sights was, in fact, Mitt Romney, we eliminated him." "We can all rest a little easier tonight knowing we have rid the world of a man who has been a continual menace to us," Carney added. "I know I will." Pentagon officials confirmed that tactical teams were able to pinpoint the former Republican presidential candidate's location with intelligence gathered through surveillance, reported sightings of the target, a campaign calendar posted on the Romney 2012 website, and testimony from confidential informants. According to eyewitness reports, when Romney saw the unmanned combat vehicle enter the college auditorium, he promptly stood up and shrieked in terror before the device launched an AGM-114 Hellfire missile that "took him apart." "Our information indicated that the target, who had been recently spotted in Ohio, Virginia, and Colorado, was traveling all around America and had access to a fortune consisting of hundreds of millions of dollars," a military spokesperson said of the mission to "find and kill" the Detroit-born politician "no matter what the cost." "When we received credible evidence that Romney was going to be in the vicinity of Lynn University the evening of Oct. 22, we realized our opportunity had arisen." The drone strike, which killed three of Romney's sons sitting near the debate stage, reportedly also took the lives of at least 45 civilians, including 12 Lynn University students, nine Secret Service agents, first daughter Malia Obama, and two cameramen. "Military operations of this ilk are dangerous, and occasionally a few innocent civilians get caught in the crossfire," said Carney, describing the lost arm and severe second-degree facial burns inflicted on debate moderator Bob Schieffer as "necessary collateral damage." "However, we must realize that this is a price we pay when we face our greatest challenges." At press time, President Obama was reportedly wiping his face clean of Romney's blood and had removed his late opponent's severed head from his lap to begin his closing remarks.