Ladies, brace yourselves for some serious heartache. The word is, Hollywood (that's "of the day" for all you non-French speakers) has gotten married! Apparently, Leo recently spent some time in Taiwan shooting , and while he was there, he started up a whirlwind romance with . Love bloomed, and Leo and the lady soon became husband and wife! Now, I don't know the name of the bride, nor do I know the wedding date. I was scrambling around right up until press time to find this info for you, but don't have enough common courtesy to return a phone call. But rest assured that the second I know more, I'll share it with you, . Well, I'm sure glad this is over. I hate to think that more lives were going to be lost more blood was going to be shed over in . It's like the great poet said: "War, war is stupid." Good God, y'all, indeed. America and the world sheds a tear over the loss of one of our true national treasures, . Known as "The Velvet Frog" because of his thick and dreamy singing style, Mr. Torme left the world a few weeks ago at age 76. Now, I'm no , but didn't just die within the last year? Could someone be striking us where we are most vulnerable: our singers? I'd like to believe that not even our worst enemies could come up with a plan this evil, but the back-to-back passings seem like too much to be mere coincidence. If I had my way, those politicians would have to take a lie-detector test just to get on the ballot! Yeah, baby! is back! And who's that dishy blonde by his side this time? That's none other than . "Who?" you may be asking yourself, and I don't blame you. You may not recognize Ms. Gramm now, but keep your eye on her. There's going to be in that woman's future. Big things! And what about the movie? As if you have to ask! Oh, ! I saw it this weekend, and it's another comedy legend! has done it again! In the little-known factoid department, did you know that Mike Meyer is heir to the ? And that when it comes time for him to take over the reins, he'll give up acting? It's true! Speaking of , what's become of ? Last I saw him, he was either or dishing up big laughs in . I wonder what he's doing now. If he's at all like me, he's probably either or wishing he were sipping a banana daiquiri on a beach somewhere. I love those banana daiquiris! Well, it's out, and my reaction is... "I love it!" I'm talking, of course, about the movie of the decade, . And what was not to love? Action! A hint of future romance! And the subtle comic stylings of ! I don't want to give anything away, but let me just say that I was very glad when that evil was killed in the climactic light-saber battle. And the dramatic sparks between and was something to behold. I look forward to seeing their chemistry sizzle again. Well, I mean sizzle in a clean, PG-rated, sort of way. Does anyone know someone who actually reads for anything but the pictures? I sure don't! Something steamy this way comes, and its name is . I don't know much about this movie, but from what everyone is saying, it should provide an eyeful of sexy actress and mega-hubby . I know it won't be for everybody (maybe not even me!), but those of you who want a little insight into what really goes on in a celebrity boudoir should check out this film, pronto. You know what I haven't had in a long time? A good old . One of those would really hit the spot right about now. Time is running out for you to enter the contest. I'd like to thank both of you who entered and want to let everyone else know that there's still a week or so left. You'll have to do pretty well to beat the entries I've gotten, but we'll see. Good luck! For now, I must once more bid you . There's that French again! Okay, I've got to come clean. I've been taking a French course at the . As I always say, you're never too old to broaden your horizons! I hope my column has broadened yours a bit, as well. Remember: It may seen like a fantasy land, but it's not out of reach. In fact, it's as close as the nearest magazine, movie or TV show. I'm talking, of course, about . Maybe some day we'll meet there. But until then, my faithful Harveyheads, I'll see you in the Outside Scoop!