A thief in Hollywood? Say it ain't so! , who delighted us in , , and , was recently arrested for shoplifting. It's true, loyal readers, they caught her red-handed taking handbags (remember when they used to call them "purses"?) from an expensive Beverly Hills store. Well, let me be the first to say shame on you, Wynonna! I know stars sometimes think they are above the law. (Heck, I'm probably as much to blame as anyone, since I've said stars are better people than us.) But to betray our trust like that! People look up to you, Wynonna. Please, think about the movie fans who hold you dear in their heart before you run off and do something like that again. Not since the heyday of and have we been so entertained by . It's Oscar time, and the folks from Down Under are so present in all the major categories, they might have to change the name of the show to the "Oz-cars"! "Toss another shrimp on the barbie" for the following Australian nominees: , who directed countrymate in ; , whose gave everyone shivers of excitement; and actor , who I didn't even know was Australian until just recently. And let's not forget Australiacting legends and , who aren't nominated but are sure to be there. G'day to all of you! We're going to have to rename Australia "Little Hollywood" soon. Come on, isn't it time we finally just made them a state? If there's one thing that really puts a dent in the car door of my day, it's . Move over, and other ladies of . The fellas are finally having their say, and you have some pretty stiff competition. It's called , and it stars (still looking good after all these years), , and from . And I think there's a black guy, too, but I could be wrong. Say, could I get a little nudge from the on that one? Thanks! As long as we're talking talk shows, let's have a hip-hip hooray for ! Regis' new co-host recently celebrated one year on the job, and she's exceeded even my own high expectations for her. I never thought anyone could fill 's oversized shoes, but Kelly's done it with her irresistible mixture of charm and spunk. Is it just me, or is that one mopey character? Every time I see him (which hasn't been a lot lately), he has a frown on his face. I say if you got it, flaunt it, Ryan! Show us that $75,000 smile! You have a lot to smile about. For example, did you know you are married to star ? It's true! THAT should turn your frown upside down. I may not be the world's biggest expert on , but I do know they shouldn't make me throw up all night. Have you heard about the scandal at the ? Apparently, some jealous Russian figure skaters stole a gold medal from their victorious Canadian rivals, and then a French judge caught the Canadians trying to steal it back. I say, give both sides a 10... for bad sportsmanship! I used to be a huge figure-skating fan, but that love was wounded when got her legs broken by that other lady in 1992. Now, after this latest episode of shame, I may never watch again. is a lesbian! During a recent stand-up routine, the comedienne extraordinaire went public with her longtime relationship with director and fellow Kmart pitchwoman . And to think that she was lying all those years when she professed her love for ! Who would have ever expected such a bombshell revelation from a gruff, blockish, WNBA-loving adoptive mother like Rosie? Well, whether you support homosexuality or believe it's an abomination in the eyes of the Lord, you can count on yours truly to bring you all the latest info on Rosie and her celebrity galpal. A member of being launched ? You read it here! I have it on good authority that one of the lesser members of the mega-popular boy band is going to be sent up into a Russian rocket later this year. No word on who will replace him while he's circling the globe, but my money's on . Here's a brand new feature I'm taking around the block for a test drive called "Didja Know?" It goes something like this: Didja know has a son who also acts? He was in a movie set in Florida about oranges or college. The commercial was pretty vague. I can tell you that he is in the movie with comedian , who steals the scene as only he can. Didja know comedian is also a rocker? Didja know there's a new season of on? It's all true, people! I couldn't make this stuff up if I tried! So, that's "Didja Know?" I think it could really catch on, but you should let know if you like it or not. Your feedback could make or break this new wrinkle in the fabric of The Outside Scoop. I'd really appreciate it. Well, sorry to dish and run, but it's time for me to pack it up yet again. Just to give you an appetizer for next time, I'll let just a touch slip. What do , , and a macaroon have in common? Think it over, and I'll see you next time... on the Outside!