Honk! Honk! Pull over, loyal readers. Pull over. Keep going. More. To tell you the truth, you better clear the road completely. My twin daughters are learning how to drive! Hiya, folks! Roger "White Knuckle" Dudek here (and in one piece... ), barreling toward you with yet another hilarious column. So buckle up, check your mirrors...and throw your car keys down a storm drain before my twins can get ahold of them! You heard me, friends, the Dynamic Daughter Duo is learning how to drive. (Editor's note: Drive a . Not me--crazy. They've been doing that for years!) In a few weeks, the girls will turn 16, and let me tell you, there's nothing about it. Already they're dating boys, breaking curfew, and spending too much time with some hot rod who promises to take them far, far away from here... My . Turns out I do hold the key to a woman's heart...only it fits in the ignition of a 2007 Corolla! Ever since the girls got their permits, I see my car less than Stevie Wonder sees Ray Charles--which is never! I can't tell if I'm a good father or the victim of . All I know is my keys are always gone and my fuel tank's emptier than ! (Ally , more like it.) Somebody give me a . Literally! Stop driving my car. And who do you suppose pays to fill the tank again? I'll give you one . Me. The guy riding his bike to the bankruptcy office while our checking account shifts into . Dude, where's my salary? I need a bailout for this . Three dollars a gallon? They should start selling it . MPG? More like RIP. Because these gas prices are going to kill me! When I'm money and can't a- the gas, my twins whine and and throw a . "Dad, you're so (cheap). You never Lexus go anywhere!" they say. And I reply, "Girls, you'll understand. Maybe when you have of your own." And when that doesn't work, I just them and hide my wallet! Please, ladies, show a little (mercy). Holy . all just get along? But seriously, folks. The law says my daughters are old enough to drive, so someone's gotta teach them. My wife Rosemary suggested me, my girls suggested their soccer coach, and I suggested we ! Is it just me, or does 16 seem a little young to be legally allowed to ? I'm telling you, I haven't wanted a law overturned this badly since my high school banned whoopee cushions. Driver's license? More like ...my insurance rates! Oh, my aching premiums. Hey, President Obama! If you want my daughters to drive so bad, how about you let them take your car? Now a change I can believe in! Hey, wait a minute. What does Congress know about driving, anyway? They've been for years. Rosemary said teaching the girls to drive would be a good way to bond, and she was right. I took them out one time and did a whole lot of bonding...mostly with the emergency brake! Folks, I was holding on to that thing like it was the last life vest on the . The car went two blocks, took a right, and I . I saw my chance and made a dash(board) for it! Turns out the only speed I'm comfortable with my girls driving is . Check, please! No, seriously, check your blind spot, . We almost hit a Buick! Thankfully, Coach Toettcher had the necessary to fill my (driving) shoes. Just when I was -ed! Within a few days, he made everyone's mood do a U-turn, took my wife out for coffee, and showed the twins how to merge on the freeway. Did a -y good job, too. Now Rosemary's humming like she just got a tune-up, and the girls are clear of me! And how about traffic these days? I can't tell if there are more cars or the road's getting smaller! I'm telling you, I've been in more jams than a judge at the State Fair. My morning commute moves slower than a comb across . Yesterday on the highway, I watched a Mustang turn into . I haven't crawled like that since I was a baby. My odometer has started counting in inches! Folks, I kid, but my family is a Rolls Royce. Because no matter how late I get home, I know my wife and two loving daughters will be waiting for me at the door...so they can use my car! Here we go again! (Or rather, my car goes, and I stay here!) Once again, those three are carpooling to Coach's house, and I'm beached at home. Oh well. What do I need with some two-ton burden that burns through my  money, requires a lot of maintenance, and refuses to work when it's too cold? I've already got a ! Drive safe, gang!