Did everyone catch the other night? I got 15 minutes into it be-fore called. As soon as I answered the phone I realized it was ! Boy, was my face red. Of course, I had to talk to her then because by the time the show was over, she'd be in bed. When we were done talking, they had moved on to the like (Hello! Does anyone actually see these things?) and (Like that's important!) So, I talked to some people, and for those of you who missed the proceedings, here's what we both missed: Actor got a lot of awards, including Best Actor and Best Film for , an action movie set in Ireland. I saw the trailers on TV with him wearing a skirt. He didn't look so macho, ladies, I assure you. I have two choice words for you Mr. Gibson-- . Actor won Best Actor as well, something I've been predicting since his days on . That guy can take even the smallest role and breathe life into it! said some very political things in her monologue (at least that part I saw). Good for you, Whoopi! My friend , who I met at a book signing last fall, has been turning down offers left and right these days! Why is this? I asked her at the signing, and she played it cool. "What offers?" she said. I was going to ask her more, but she was done signing my book and asked me to be considerate of the . What can I say? When Loni asks, what can I do but comply? Now it turns out that she has a big television part. I knew it! (As for the secret you've been dying to know, she signed my book, "To Jacky, All the best, Loni.") Everybody's catching it! Did anyone see me on the last Wednesday? They were doing those "man on the street" interviews, and I happened to be passing by. No, I wasn't asked my opinion (and it's a good thing, because I was in a hurry to return videos), but I passed right behind . So yes, that was that was seen on televisions across the city. I'm glad they got my good side. The place that was once set for my is now wide open with my long-standing invitation for actor extraordinaire . This doesn't mean that I'm adverse to having other company though. Finally, at the grand opening of the this weekend. Come on down if you can, and I'll be happy to give you some of the juicy gossip so hot that even can't print it! If you can't make it, then I guess I'll see you next week...on the outside!