My goal is to someday become a Realtor, and, come heck or high water, I'm going to do it! I've always wanted a career, and, now that the kids are finally old enough not to need me around the house all the time, I'm determined to go for it. As my best girlfriend Patricia who sells Amway told me, there's no better time than the present! Looking through 's Sunday Home & Life section this week, I noticed all sorts of women Realtors, and they all looked so happy and confident in their blazers embossed with their company logo. I'd love to have a prestigious-looking blazer like that. Why, if I wore one of those blazers to my church women's circle meeting "by accident," Edith and Sandy would be just green with envy! I cannot wait for the day I get to walk up to those two and hand them business cards with name on it. The look on their faces will be priceless! I read in a article that, to make my dream a reality, I'll have to go to classes for a few months and get my Realtor's license. There's a nice, fancy-looking technical school I always pass on my way to Centrepoint Mall that I'll bet has a good night program. And, if I go to class at night, I can continue working my 16 hours a week at Karen's Crafts. Who says you can't have it all? I've tried unsuccessfully to have a career before, but this time, I'm determined to do it. It will be completely different from the time I paid $180 to earn an accounting degree by mail. It's too bad that course was so hard, because I was pretty good at math back in junior high, and I was really looking forward to working in an office where I'd have my own telephone and a desk where I could put pictures and plants. I guess I just didn't realize how complicated all those columns of numbers can get. For a while after that, I considered switching to a secretarial program, but that just wouldn't do: It's always been my dream to be a professional! And not only is real estate an important, professional field that will earn me the respect of others, it's also one that incorporates my interests. I like to help people, and I've always loved looking at people's homes. Sometimes, I drive around that new part of town behind the Piggly Wiggly just to see if any more of those houses went up with the giant windows and those big things that stick out over the garages. I must admit, though: It isn't only for the love of the job and the prestige that I've decided to become a Realtor. There's a lot of money to be made, too. I have a cousin in Tempe who's in real estate, and he and his wife have an in-ground swimming pool and three cars! As soon as I get my first paycheck, the first thing I'm going to do is finally get rid of that gosh-awful paneling in the basement. Goodbye, faux wood! Another nice thing is, with a Realtor's license, I'll eventually be able to go into business for myself and set my own hours. There's no limit to what I'll be able to accomplish once I'm my own boss! Maybe during the winter I'll go to some of those Realtor conventions down in Florida. I'm definitely going to work a whole lot during the cold months so that, in the summer, I can go on vacation or just take a few months off to just relax. I'm so glad I decided to become a Realtor!