ARLINGTON, TX--Calling the transformation both delightful and stunning, friends and family members confirmed Tuesday that 17-year-old Ashley Parker was blossoming into an absolutely gorgeous object. According to Parker's relatives, in the span of 14 months, the high school junior underwent a staggering metamorphosis from a young girl with thoughts, feelings, and aspirations into a truly stunning commodity. "Ashley has really developed into quite a striking assemblage of physical attributes that are found to be sexually attractive in our culture," said Parker's uncle Keith Hayes, expressing astonishment at how his niece had steadily matured from a precocious youth into a shapely, ravishing thing devoid of intellect and personality. "It's hard to believe that she used to be that little girl [capable of subjective experiences] that I remember. Now look at her--she's such a lovely vessel for displaced sexual frustration and voyeuristic lust, just like her mother." "Seems like just yesterday she was this creative 7-year-old kid, pretending her Barbie was the first woman president," Hayes added. "My, they grow into little more than consumer goods so quickly." Marveling at the rite of passage that all females make from girlhood into entirely disempowered objecthood, Hayes expressed confidence that the 17-year-old would one day become a highly prized physical possession for "one lucky guy." Parker's classmates at Wakefield High School were also reportedly captivated by the adolescent's transition from a young woman into an eye-catching repository for male gratification. High school senior Kevin Turner said that Parker had become a particularly alluring instrument of purely physical pleasure in the months since she was a young, conscious, independent preteen girl. "I grew up with Ashley and never thought much of her before, but over the last year or so, I really started to see her for the beautiful little piece of equipment she is," said Turner, expressing enthusiasm for how the teen had evolved into a dazzling sexual apparatus. "I'm thinking of asking that mere receptacle to prom." "Take a look at it," added Turner of the former human being. "I can think of a lot of things I'd like to do with that." Edmund Powell, Parker's history teacher, echoed the sentiment of many pupils, claiming that he was impressed by the junior's transformation from an honor roll student and sentient human being into a lovely piece of meat. "Ashley used to be one of the brightest and best students in my class," said Powell, recalling the former girl who once consisted of more than a single, surface-deep dimension. "But, wow, now you'd have to say that she's something very special. Something very special indeed." While Parker's mother Stacey was reportedly certain that her daughter would make a beautiful and unthinkingly gracious trophy someday, the 38-year-old cautioned Ashley not to get her hopes up about finding the perfect money bags right away.