Let me explain something to you. I'm from the old school, you understand. I'll treat you right. There ain't nothing in this world I wouldn't do for you, baby. You know what I'm saying? When you and I go out to eat, I'm gonna pull out your chair for you to sit down. This is a classy maneuver that means I respect you and know how to treat you right. And during our dinner together I'm gonna be whispering in your ear a sweet stream of compliments regarding your exquisite beauty. "Baby," I'll say, "your lips are like a luscious, red ocean of desire. And my lips will be like a boat upon that ocean." And any other variety of compliment. And when it comes down to making love, I'm going to touch your body like it's never been touched before. I will remove my hat upon your request, because that is the right thing to do. I will be remembered as the best lover in your life, because I treat my lover right. And when I'm making love to you, I will say, "Ooh, sugar... Yeah... Mmm... Mmm-Mmm... Damn..." "You are mine," I will say with a warm smile. Then I will rub your feet for several hours in front of the fire while we listen to Keith Sweat. When we go to the park, I will whisper to you, "My sweet baby, your eyes are like pearls and your hair is like moon beams." I will caress your hand. And I will then get on my knees in front of the park bench and say to you, "I am your man. I would do anything for you, baby. Anything at all." I will then present you with a beautiful diamond. This is how you will be treated, because you are my special one and only. Baby, you look so good right now, I wanna get freaky with you right here on this table. One night, you and I will take a romantic ride in a horse and carriage through town. That will be the night I will profess my love to you. "Baby, you got to me mine-- ," I will say. Then I will take you home and feed oysters to you by candlelight, my sweet chocolate pudding. I will do this all night long. night long. You and I will take a bubble bath, and I will rub you from head to toe, every move slow and sophisticated. I will even remove my ring for the event. We will drink champagne in the bath tub until dawn, and I will sing to you,  I would do anything for you. I will rub your body with exotic oils. I treat my baby right. , I'll Treat You Right, .