HOLLYWOOD, CA--Artistic sensibility took a backseat to commercial consideration yesterday, when independent writer-director Norm Blugoth's semi-autobiographical opus, was purchased, revamped and re-released by Mammoth Video under the new title . "We liked the original version," said Mammoth Video president Ron Hillman of Blugoth's intimate look at a young boy growing up in an abusive household. "We simply felt it needed just a little something extra." Blugoth recieved an advance of approximately $14,000 for the sale of the repackaged , which will feature teen heartthrob Corey Feldman as a hard-boiled desperado rocket pilot from the year 2399, who is captured and seduced by a mysterious topless alien race known as the Succulons. Blugoth's entire advance immediately went toward the massive debt he has been shouldering from the project his entire adult life, only partially offsetting the tremendous bills he owes creditors. "For 17 years I worked as a stockboy in a nationwide discount supermarket chain, slaving away in obscurity, channeling the desperate sense of meaninglessness my life inspired into a screenplay I hoped would one day be found after my death," Blugoth said. "With each brightly colored box of sugar cereal my trembling hands neatly stacked, I took solace only in the faith that my screenplay would one day be recognized for its subtleties of character, story and milieu. It was all that kept me going." Mammoth Video publicity director Brianna Shalimar shared Blugoth's enthusiasm about the project. "We're really excited about here at Mammoth Video's award-winning public relations department," Shalimar told reporters. "We feel sure that , starring hunky Corey Feldman and fiesty Latin newcomer Conchita Marisando will be straight-to-video R-rated erotic-thriller/ action/sci-fi release of November." "If you liked last year's surprise hit ," Shalimar added, "you'll love , coming this fall to a video retail outlet near you!" After burning all traces of his writings and scrawling "Take Me Demons" in his own feces on the wall of his East Los Angeles flat, Blugoth plans to blow his brains out with a double-barrelled shotgun he purchased earlier this week after pawning the typewriter that was his only possession of value for the last 15 years of his life.