All across America, kids are putting on their Zoot Suits and lining up around the block to again! Sparked by the , the swing craze is really taking off! In fact, so many people are doing the " Hop," the "Shoe-Buckle Shake" and the "Over The River And Through The Woods," it's like it's all over again! Hey, is that over there cutting a rug with ? I think it is! So popular was the soundtrack to the movie , they've released a follow-up album, . Word is, it's packed with all the parts of the moving score to the film that couldn't fit onto the first triple-platinum album. I don't know about you, but I'm headed to right now! On a sadder note, a fond farewell to , who was taken from us all too soon. Flo, your sass and charm, not to mention your trademark catchphrase, will not soon be forgotten. Did you know that they still make ? Yep, and it's as tasty as ever! Not only does have a racy new show called , but she also just got married! Yes, according to my ever-reliable sources, the walked down the aisle with in her hometown of . Since her dad wasn't around, Cindy was given away by none other than the original "playboy" himself, ! The real scandal, though, was that Cindy wore white, despite her previous marriage to . Well, let me tell you, if anyone deserves to have a stunning white wedding, it's the fabulous Cindy C. Congratulations, and may you enjoy together! I'm not normally a big sports fan, but that home-run race really got me hooked! It truly went right down to the wire between super-slugger and . People write in wanting to know what kind of music I like. Well, suffice it to say, I like a little bit of everything. Lately, though, I've been listening to a lot of . No one can write a ballad that makes me all nostalgic like he can. Except for maybe . Together, they're a knock-out combo! I just saw that for the first time, and it's every bit as as I'd heard. Boy, the stuff they put on TV these days!  magazine turned 50 recently. That's right, 50 years ago, the first issue of magazine, all the news you need to know, hit the street. And you would not believe the celebrity turnout for the 50th anniversary bash. , , , .... the list goes on and on! There probably haven't been that many stars in one place since the Big Bang! Congratulations to new mother , who recently gave birth to a beautiful baby girl. But the big question is, who's the father? Rumor has it it's legendary director , but no one knows for sure. If you look up in the dictionary, you'll find a picture of . Probably , too, but he's dead. Speaking of Chris Farley, a little bird tells me that we can soon expect to see a movie version of yet another beloved sketch. Which one? If you guessed , you're right on the money! Come next summer, "  will be echoing from movie theaters across the country--and not a moment too soon. After all, this country sure could use a good laugh, what with this in Washington. Dana Carver and the Church Lady will be the perfect antidote for what ails this great nation. And, if we're lucky, the Church Lady movie will have a cameo by those gut-busting Aryan weightlifters . They're going to pump up... your laugh quotient! Did you happen to catch magazine's 1998 Best-Dressed List? All in all, some pretty good selections, including , but where was gorgeous ? And while we're at it, where was ? Come on, folks! Many people know that the is good for getting information about and . But did you know that it's also good for getting gossip about movies? There are a number of good people out there raking the muck in Hollywood. The best one, without a doubt, is , the man behind the "site" Knowing how hush-hush Hollywood is, one has to wonder how he gets all his information. Well, rather than try to get confirmation from , Harry shoots the news right to us as soon as he gets it. That way, we know the dish almost as soon as he does! What an asset! You can rest assured, though, that I'll still rely on and not just tell you the same things he does. If you're anything like me, you can't wait for the debut of the runaway hit show It's all about the trials and tribulations of a young woman trying to make it in this world, only it's actually told from . All I can say is, it's about time! Well, I'm afraid that's all the room I have for this week. I know, I know, I've barely scratched the surface. But you can rest assured that I'll have plenty more juicy Tinseltown tidbits for you next time. In the meantime, thank your lucky stars that we live in the best country in the world, ! And you can also thank your lucky stars that we have the greatest dream factory around, !