NEW HAVEN, CT--A headstrong young protagonist in way over her head visited the microfilm room of the New Haven Public Library Tuesday night in order to delve deeper into a riveting plotline that could put her career--and maybe even her life--on the line. According to sources, the plucky and determined woman worked late into the evening, whirring methodically through a reel of archived newspapers in search of information that could unlock a secret better left untouched. The inquisitive main character then reportedly scrolled past the material she was looking for before carefully winding the microfilm in reverse and adjusting the focus on a single significant headline. "'Mysterious Sickness Baffles Community,'" whispered the journalist, her lips barely moving as she scanned two seemingly unrelated front-page articles from a 1995 issue of the . "'WorldChem To Open New Plant Near Interstate.'" Added the tireless investigator, "WorldChem..." A number of key supporting characters confirmed Tuesday that the attractive, no-nonsense young writer would likely not rest until she had unearthed every last detail of what she assured them was "just a hunch." Library sources reported that the protagonist moved confidently through thousands of periodicals--as well as various city, county, and state records--before finding the exact items she desired. "Bingo," said the journalist, positively identifying the mayor's ex-wife in a photo with a WorldChem executive. "And Lt. Gov. Michaels. What's going on here?" Sources said a thud from somewhere in the dark room then frightened the likable and quietly determined heroine, who had been warned by her father--a retired newspaperman himself--that she was playing with fire and would do well to go back to covering broken water mains and city council meetings. "Hello?" the frightened young woman said before returning to her work. "Hello?" According to reports, several hours seemed to sweep by within a matter of seconds as the journalist viewed numerous headlines in rapid succession, each blurring into the next and implicating more and more powerful individuals in a tangled web that, just moments earlier, was completely unknown to any but those directly involved. "Oh my God," said the protagonist, grasping that she had just pieced together a statewide conspiracy, the exact details of which were apparent only to her but which, reports suggested, might link high-ranking officials to some manner of corporate malfeasance and would almost certainly threaten to bring down the entire power structure. "This goes all the way to the top." "What have I gotten myself into?" she added. Sources said that as the fictional reporter realized she was likely embroiled in a dangerous game of greed and corruption with public figures capable of anything, she was interrupted by a sudden, startling tap on her shoulder, which ended up being nothing more than the night librarian. "We're closing in five minutes, miss," the peripheral character said. The journalist was later seen walking through the library's parking lot frantically talking on her cell phone to her editor, a gruff but ultimately adoring mentor who had agreed to let her continue her investigation only upon realizing she was too stubborn to take no for an answer anyway. At press time, a blinding set of headlights from across the lot had suddenly burst into view.