Item! Grammy-winning superduo is no more! It breaks my heart to report this, but died in of a drug overdose! I don't know if it was or , but whichever it was, has got to stop. Why would someone like Milli or Vanilli, a man who had it all, turn to drugs? It just boggles the mind. I want to leave you with an for the departed: Milli or Vanilli, you know it's true. Ooh, ooh, ooh, we loved you. Rest in peace, friend. As long as we're on the subject of passings, a fond farewell to the great , a class act all the way. Tammy, if ever I'm in Nashville, you can rest assured I will stand by your grave. Lest you think I've forsaken to become a , here's a juicy movie tidbit. I just saw , and I've got to say, I love ! I've never been a fan of little dogs, but this particular pooch lit up the screen!  and  were great, but it was that dog that truly deserved a golden statue. (Perhaps for Best Supporting Schnauzer?) If you're a connoisseur of canines, go see "as soon as you can"! Speaking of , I have to say that is "good" for a scare and a chuckle. Or even two or three! It's all thanks to the show's star, cutie-pie actress , who also appeared in the movies , and . Forget Cupid's arrow... This sexy vampire-slayer just put a stake through my heart! Just one is on people's minds these days, and it's the one and only (which comes from the Greek, meaning "thunder lizard"). People are wearing them on T-shirts, going to see them in movies like , and dressing up like them just for the heck of it. I hear they're even doing a remake of the best dinosaur movie ever, ! You can't possibly "fathom" how excited this makes me! I'm a fan from way back. Way back. Get ready to have some "must-free" time on your hands... is calling it quits! And guess who has the hot tip on how it's going to end? That's right, yours truly. I have it on good authority that the show about nothing is going to go out with a bang- ! I can't tell you too much, but there is going to be a bomb, and not everyone is going to make it out of that wacky Manhattan apartment alive. But who is responsible for the ? Is it , Jerry's arch-rival? Or is it , who has always shown a fondness for blowing things up? Or is it ? I have an idea, but I'm not about to give it away. Suffice it to say, you'll just have to watch it this Thursday to find out. Now, is ! I still haven't seen , but just as soon as I do, I'll let you know what I think. Remember those ? You know, the German cars that had a motor in the trunk and a trunk in the front? Well, they're baaaack! I had a VW Bug in college. My friends and I would try to see how many of us could cram into it at once. I kissed in that Bug once, too, but I am a gentleman, and I will never reveal the name of . That's not to say that I'm still spoken for, however, because I am currently available. Well, is still unsinkable! Of course, I'm talking about the movie, not the ship, which went down in the in 1904. Now there's word that sequel-happy director has set his sights on doing a romanticized retelling of the tragedy. Now, I loved , but I say enough is enough! Have some respect for the dead, Mr. Cameron! According to some of my more reliable sources, they're going to make a movie based on Irwin Allen's classic . If you ask me, I think would be a better choice for the silver screen, what with America's obsession with sinking ships. But who am I to say? I'm sure I'll love it just the same. I wonder who's going to play the role? Well, I've gotten many letters asking whether I've had a follow-up date with yet, but I've decided to remain mute or moot, whichever is the correct word. Until I decide to dish the dirt on me and the mystery woman, you'll just have to turn to the glow of to get your vicarious romantic thrills. That's all for now!