Has this ever happened to you? You are snug in your bed when an insatiable craving overcomes you. You try to ignore it, but a piece of fried chicken in the fridge is calling you. Before you know it, you're in the kitchen, standing before the open refrigerator. As any snacktologist could tell you, this is your body's munchtabolic system telling you that you've got the gotta-gobbles. Snacking is an important part of the food-intake process. Skipping munch can result in hunger, fatigue, and undertantalization of the taste buds. In fact, recent scientif-esque studies show that munchtime is the most important snack of the day. General Snacks' snackentistic research indicates that people who eat at munchtime are less likely to suffer from lowered blood sugar. Munchtime, when enjoyed regularly, also cuts down on late-night hunger pangs, leading to sounder sleep and a greater level of performance the next day. In addition, chompetific studies show that munchtime snackers are two-thirds less likely to fall asleep after the news. Snacker studies show that munchtime decreases your nibbling quotient by 67 percent. While no snack is 100 percent effective against the nibbles, a satisfying munchtime works better at reducing your bitetime urges than the other four leading snacktimes combined. As General Snacks' snacksperson, with 52 years of experience in snack-making and almost 60 years' experience in goodie-consumption, I can assure you that munchtime doesn't have to be a chore. Whether it's a fruitastic General Snacks Real-Fruit Pie topped with a dollop of Frozen Vanilla Whip or a handful of General Snacks Vegetable Crisp Crunchers crackers right out of the box, it's easy to get the tasty morsels you need to meet your snacktritional needs. Another little-known snacktoid: The extra boost that munchtime provides will fuel your post-meal activities, like washing your munchtime dishes, settling in for a long movie, or driving down to the corner store for tomorrow's munchtime snack. Watching your waistline? General Snacks noshtritionists note that there are many ways to tailor your munchtime snack to your nutrimental goals. Don't rule out breakfast foods or dinner foods or desserts because they seem inappropriate for munchtime. Munchtime is the perfect time to polish off any extra General Snacks provisions you have lying around the house. Some people don't know what constitutes a decent munchtime snack. The right answer is that there is no wrong answer. You can enjoy a sandwich made with General Snacks Peanut Butter, creamy or crunchy, or a bowl of General Snacks Microwaveable Soup. General Snacks Fruit Gels, anyone? Only you know what your body needs to satisfy its snacktritional cravings. You could fulfill your munchtime requirements with a quick meal of tasty General Snacks Ramen Noodles. How about some General Snacks Double Toffee Turtle Ice Cream straight out of the carton? No one needs to know what you do once the blinds are drawn. That's between you and your spoon. If you have any questions, or would like some free munchtime snackgestions, visit www.generalsnacks.com/munchtime.