VAN NUYS, CA-Investigations are continuing into the recent downfall of Jack Castle, an ex-cop drawn into a web of intrigue and deceit by a frequently naked woman. Though police have yet to determine the exact cause of Castle's undoing, the frequent nudity of the "mystery woman" is believed to have played a major role. Castle, who served on the Van Nuys Police Department for 27 years before quitting last year, had reportedly been driven over the edge by the devious schemes of the torso-baring woman. "We don't have much info on this woman yet, but we do know that she lured Jack down a deadly path of lies and deception," said Van Nuys police chief Lou Phillips, Castle's former best friend until he quit the force. "We also know that she frequently needed to change, usually in a bathroom with a strategically placed mirror on an open door." The case, which Van Nuys police officials have code-named "Operation Brutal Instinct 2," is regarded as the worst incident of erotic-thrilling in Van Nuys since March, when Officer Candi Jacobs went undercover as a stripper to catch a killer. The mysterious woman-who may be a reporter with an ulterior motive, a streetwise hooker on the run, a con artist out to make a bundle on insurance fraud, or a psychotic killer on a murder spree-is believed to have preyed on Castle's deepest fears of manhood-inadequacy in luring him to his doom. "Castle was a tough cop once-one of the best," Phillips said. "But he never forgave himself for what happened to his beloved Victoria. And that left him deeply vulnerable to the type of woman who puts on her thong panties in front of open windows." Phillips said Castle became embroiled in the oft-nude woman's manipulations because of his inability to come to terms with the tragic end of his relationship with Victoria Hope, who left him because of his neglect for her burning sexual needs. "He was so wrapped up in his work, he was unable to give his woman the raw, unbridled passion she craved," Phillips said. "Starved for affection, she eventually fell into the arms of her cable installer." "That was the day she left Jack," said Phillips, pensively running his fingers over his stubbled face. "A short time later, she was found murdered with her own silk stockings. He quit the force the next day." Experts say Castle's anguish over his failure as a lover and a cop is the reason he became so vulnerable he couldn't stop his descent into the woman's whirlwind of deception, betrayal, lust... and murder. Said forensic psychologist Dr. William Katt: "The frequent, gratuitous nudity-behavior demonstrated by this mystery woman seems to have unleashed Jack Castle's inner demons to the point where he could no longer control his dark side, and he became trapped in a nightmare of graphic violence, adult situations, explicit language and strong sexual content." Described by witnesses as a classic femme-fatale archetype preying on male fears of the , the frequently naked woman was last seen wearing stiletto heels, thick eyeliner, a red garter, pantyhose and lingerie and no bra. Her breasts were described as "enormous." Said noted criminal behaviorist Dr. Julian Sands, "Jack Castle was a man who faced muggers, drug dealers and gun-toting gangs without batting an eye. But it was this sinister seductress-armed with two naked, heaving, surgically enhanced breasts, jutting forth in bold defiance of gravity, their pert, erect nipples thrusting forward-who destroyed him in the end." Though many of Castle's close friends were deeply shocked upon learning of his tragic story and its surprise twist ending-which has been described as "a real shocker that will leave you breathless"-no one is more distraught than his estranged father, Lance Castle. "I should have been there for my son," the elder Castle said. "Parental discretion should have been advised."