For some people, begins in March, and it's tied to college basketball, but not me! I start to go mad beginning in December, and it all wraps up right at the beginning of March, or the end of February lately. Of course I'm talking about the glitz, the glamour, the ! And what a season it is this year. is back to show all those and how it's done. As far as the films themselves go, there have been so many unexpected surprises, twists, and turns this season that you would need an expert to figure it out. Fortunately, that's where your comes in. I tried to be fair and see all the movies, as I do every year, but with a schedule like mine, it's not always easy. While I love the book , I was scared away from the movie version after hearing from a lot of people that it was very long. Also, I went to see , but it was hard for me to see what all the fuss was about. To be fair to the filmmakers, the sound was all messed up at the screening I went to and I couldn't hear any of the dialogue. It's a good thing the leading man was French, so there were subtitles. I mean, not like you needed them. From start to finish, lead overacted so much that everything was telegraphed. Hey, Damien, it's the Oscars, not the Hammys! But enough about what I haven't seen, or haven't seen well. Let's get this Oscar party started right! Breathe easy, I'll get rid of the elephant in the room right now. For best picture, the obvious choice is Hollywood and I both love a good story about black people and white people helping each other, and delivered in spades! Emma Stone delivers a powerhouse performance, Olivia Spencer, who is black, gives a knock-out performance, and the movie has a very powerful message: Don't be racist, and women can make a difference. It gets a little trickier from there. Smart money would put the little statue for in ' oh-so-capable hands for his part in , since he's only won once, and that was for supporting actor for . Not so fast though, because Jackie Harvey's never been one to take the smart money. My gut tells me that 2012 is the year of , in part because British actors always have the edge, but also because he was robbed in his turn as in the sadly overlooked movie. I bet you're close to figuring out who is going to win for . Keep thinking about it. Getting any close-r? Well, if you picked , then you're right on the money! With two wins under her belt for ' and , Glenn Close is no stranger to the ceremonies, and her turn as Queen Elizabeth in was nothing short of amazing. Since didn't release a movie this year, I'm going to go out on a limb and say that is the best bet for . Or maybe . Yeah, forget . Pandas are very popular at the moment, what with the looming ecological disaster threatening to make them all extinct. Lizards don't have quite the same cachet since they can live pretty much anywhere, I'm fairly sure. I don't know all the science, really, but put your chips on . Now for the ! For , hands down, , because she was so brave. , ' for holding his own against . And finally, the goes to , because I could actually follow what was going on in that crazy movie . Talk about avant-garde! I'd share more of my picks, but I can't give away ALL of my secrets. For all I know, you might be betting against me! Just kidding. ;-P Well, time to wrap things up! I have to go check out a hot lead that has a daughter that had gender reassignment surgery. Come back for that, because you're not gonna want to miss it. Until then, I'll see you...on the outside!