You could have knocked me over with a feather after the . It wasn't just because of all the Oscar upsets, but also because of the new direction the ceremony has taken. is no , but he sure did shake things up. His bit with comedy king was golden. And boy, did he make mad when he asked who was! I'm being kind of glib about that last one. I saw where Rock was coming from, but I thought Mr. Penn made a good point, too. He was right to stand up for one of our generation's finest actors, who has graced us with great performances in films like and . And if you can't stand up for what's right at the Oscars, where can you do that? But it wasn't just about standing up for what's right. took the most awards, winning , , , , and . And won , proving for the second time that the Academy is colorblind. Congratulations to all the winners, whatever their color! Oddly enough, there were no major at the Oscars this year. Who could forget from a few years ago? Or ? Or ? No one. We're still talking about them! I'm going to move out of awards mode in just a second, but there's been a lot of talk about at the . People were saying that J. Lo sounded like a gut-shot crow or a '68 VW Beetle. First of all, someone should tell those people to bite their tongues! Second, I don't know which Grammys they were watching, but what I saw was a couple in love, singing a tender romantic ballad that transcended language, pitch, and key. Anyone who says otherwise is a racist. Kudos Mark and J, and gracias por su funcionamiento. I just saw some poking out of the ground, which means spring is on its way. I'm glad, because spring is a good time for love, and there seems to be a lot of splitting up going on. Oh, I'm sorry. Didn't you know? of and his wife of have filed for .  Doesn't anybody ever stay together anymore? Especially while Denise is pregnant! I'm shocked! I don't care how talented you are, Charles, I will never watch another of your movies or entertaining sitcoms again. It's as simple as this: You don't walk out on a girl who's in the family way. (Unless it's for true love like did to be with .) Oh, and also, Dawson's cutie and that split up. I guess I hadn't really thought about either of those two in awhile, so it's not that big a deal to me. I'd be happier if cars got . It'd be good for my wallet and good for the country. I last reported that fashion and accessory advisor to the people Steven "Cojo" Cojocaru was recovering from kidney transplant surgery. Apparently, from isn't so "cour"teous, if you follow me. When Cojo did an interview with another show, Ms. Nice dumped him from an appearance on . Talk about kicking someone while he's down! I'll still watch , but not during (April 12-18). I can't decide who's the better artist, or . There's a lot of to-do about chickens being mistreated. Rap mogul and the have joined in the fight against chicken cruelty. If you ask me, chickens are coddled. When I was 4, my parents took me to a farm. I wandered around happily until I made my way into the chicken coop. The dumb birds swarmed me, flapping their wings like crazy, making clucking sounds, and pecking at my legs. Those beaks are sharper than they look. If a chicken dies to become my , I say good riddance! I've never been surfing, but you'd better believe that if I ever went to , I'd be willing to give it the old Harvey try. Someone better start an online petition to get that album out. I've been waiting years for the pouting chanteuse to deliver another one-two punch, only to find out that it has been done for more than a year? Come on, let us have it! Ow! Not in the face! Well, that about wraps it up for the ol' Scoop for this week. I have a birthday coming up soon (I won't tell you how old I am!) so I'm going to treat myself to something nice, like a little television for my kitchen counter or a nice dinner at . By the time you next hear from me, I'll be a little older and a little wiser about all things ! I'm working on some great leads right now, including the whereabouts of , and why has so much trouble finding true love. All that and more next time... on The Outside.