There was a number on everyone's lips last year, and that number was . Who could blame them? It was a year big on surprises: thrills, love, laughter, and of course, entertainment. So let's take a trip down recent-memory lane to check out the big stories of last year! Politics are usually pretty boring, but they made for big, big, big entertainment in 2004. , who found fame trying to interview General Motors CEO a few years ago, turned up the heat on Washington with . Call the cops, because "stole" the box office! It raked in more than $100 million, and it didn't even have . Congratulations on the big money-maker, Mike! Even though you may have gone a little too far picking on the , no one can deny that you put together a wild ride! Know what else was big? The man himself! I am talking about . Hunk-tor performed a miracle of his own, directing , which made more than $100 million without Julia Roberts or English. Who says that there are no surprises left in Hollywood? People stuck on an island? Seen it! Twelve women vying for one unattached guy? Snore! A bunch of people stuck in a house while cameras follow their every move? Come on! With all this re-hashing of old ideas, it seemed like reality shows had run their course in '04, making reality junkies like me start to get the shakes. (Did anyone else have that dream where is a baby with fangs, and she is climbing above your bed?) Thank goodness for a trio of shows that pumped some juice into the genre: , , and . These groundbreaking shows taught us some valuable lessons. For one, money can't buy happiness. And no matter how ambitious you are, you can always be fired, especially if you're black. And finally, if you're ugly, you should do something about it, even if you have to undergo plastic surgery on national television. But the biggest lesson? If you want a successful reality show, add to the beginning of the title. Just when you think you've seen the lowest people will go, something else comes along and surprises you. Of course, I am talking about and their recent remake of classic hit Now, I know it's for charity and all, but a classic like "We Are The World" shouldn't be touched. How could anyone possibly recapture the magic of and singing to raise money to feed Africans? Hey UK, here's an idea: Why not write a new song for charity instead of stealing someone else's? died. So did former guitarist . went to jail. was deported. got drunk and hit a fan with a mic stand. And a basketball player was suspended for fighting. What has happened of the nation's heroes? Tongues were wagging after "Did It Again" girl got married not once, but twice! The first one didn't count because it was in Vegas, but not too long afterwards, she took a second walk down the aisle with Eddie Fendergrass. Why the rush to get married? Could it be that Brittany's biological clock is ticking? Let's keep our fingers crossed! Speaking of babies, congratulations to Julia Roberts and ; the couple brought home a set of twins. also had a bundle of joy this year and named her after her computer. Australian singer had a son. Actually, it was his wife who had the son, of course! Phil is male! In two of the year's sadder events, and split. We never did find out who to blame for the breakups. This year, there weren't any . I guess 2004 will be remembered as the year that people mattered most. Music? of it! I barely know where to begin. took home 10 Grammy nominations, and I still have no idea who he is. But I found out his name is pronounced like "Tanya." You heard it here first, readers. Rapper retired and released two albums. And emerged from the shadows of older sister , who released a Christmas album and is still happily married to . Way to go, Jessica and Nick! was a smash hit, proving that you can go home again, especially if you're . Do I smell a sequel? That reminds me: Where was this year? I always liked him. With over for good, where can viewers turn for top-notch puns and innuendoes from self-satisfied singles looking for love? Strangely, salvation has a name and its name is . Snappy outfits, snappier banter, and the ladies? Still, I'm going to miss and her . Now who's going to keep me in the know about the shoes I can't afford? Or wear! And now, friends, with this, my last column of 2004, I officially retire the phrase When I was a kid, I had a television with a dial that you would "turn" to change the channel. Well, anyone born after 1985 probably doesn't know what I'm talking about when I say that now, so I need to come up with another phrase that means the same thing. "Push the button" doesn't have that zing. Had I had the space, I would've talked about a lot more entertainment. Unfortunately, I don't have that luxury in a newspaper column, which is why I'm working on a book about 2004. The working title is . I'm only up to mid-February so far, but I'm going to keep at it. That is, unless the television series keep me as busy as the 2004 shows did! In the meantime, save a seat for me...on The Outside!