VANCOUVER, WA--Local resident Pat Brouger spent more than an hour Saturday speculating about whether or not actor Kevin Spacey is an asshole in everyday life. Brouger, 29, told reporters that while it would be "cool" to find out Spacey was a really nice guy away from the camera, he also wouldn't be surprised if he eventually learned the actor was "a total dick." Sources confirmed Brouger has been wanting to know this information on and off since 1997, when he watched the film "I think he's a good actor--I just kind of want to know if he's a jerk or not," said Brouger, who on several occasions has asked his friends if they think Spacey would be an asshole to hang out with. "He just seems like he might be the smug 'holier than thou' type, but I could be wrong." "Philip Seymour Hoffman seems like that, too, but I've actually heard he's pretty nice," added Brouger, who has typed the words "Kevin Spacey Jerk?" into his search engine more than once. "I bet [Spacey] is really sarcastic, but that doesn't necessarily mean he's a bad guy. Then again, if he overdoes it, I can see how that could become really annoying. It's tough to tell if you don't actually know him, though." Brouger explained that while he tries not to jump to conclusions based purely on Spacey's movie roles, it's hard for him to watch and not think that's how Spacey actually is. "There's this one part where he's a real smart ass, and I feel like that's pretty hard to fake," said Brouger, who went on to list all the films he could remember in which Spacey acts like an prick, and then later said that he wouldn't be surprised if Spacey's offscreen persona fell somewhere between his characters in and "And take , for example. Even though he's a good guy in that, he's certainly not likable. Well, he's likable because he's kind of a prick, but I don't think that works as well in real life as it does in the movies. "Yes, [Spacey's character] helps out Samuel L. Jackson in the end," Brouger continued, "but Samuel L. Jackson is clearly desperate. Anyone else would have been like, 'Okay, buddy, shut your mouth.' Tommy Lee Jones is like that in , but I bet he's an awesome guy in real life." Though Brouger listed several reasons why Spacey might not be an asshole, including his willingness to do a cameo in an movie and his Christopher Walken impression, the 29-year-old said he still thinks Spacey is most likely a dick, evidenced by an anecdote relayed to him by his friend Carey, who said her roommate April waited on Spacey in a Los Angeles restaurant once and Spacey didn't give a very big tip. In addition, Brouger said he once saw a picture of Spacey in a magazine wearing these sunglasses that made him look really cocky. Brouger also told reporters that he has watched, read, and listened to various interviews with the actor, and that even though Spacey comes off as "personable and down to earth," there is ultimately no way to tell if Spacey is really that charming or if he is just acting. "It's not like he's going to be a jerk in interviews, because then everyone would see that he's a jerk, and I'm sure he doesn't want that," Brouger explained. "I'm just saying, he might be a saint in front of the camera and an asshole behind the scenes." Continued Brouger, "I bet a lot of them are like that." At press time, Brouger said he was still leaning toward Spacey being an asshole, but added that his friend Mitch had a point about being a pretty cool movie.