WASHINGTON--According to a poll released Monday by the Pew Research Center, the escalating conflict between Russia and Ukraine has left Americans sharply and bitterly divided along ignorant and apathetic lines, with the nation's citizenry evenly split between grossly misinformed and wholly indifferent factions. "The very real threat of a Russia-Ukraine war has completely polarized the general public, pitting two deeply entrenched blocs against one another: those who have absolutely no clue what they're talking about and those who couldn't care less," said Pew spokesman Andrew Collins, noting that the ouster of Ukraine's president Viktor Yanukovych and Russia's subsequent occupation of Crimea has inflamed tensions between the two sides to a level unseen since the height of the war in Syria. "This is not a distinctly regional or socioeconomic split, either. We're seeing local workplaces, friends, even families ripped in two by their desire to either ignore the whole thing completely or spout an inane, half-witted opinion on it like they're some geopolitical expert." "And as the situation develops and Western powers become more involved, these divisions will only appear more stark," he added. "In the coming weeks, we can expect to hear a growing cacophony of uninformed and harebrained calls for action or restraint from one side, and absolutely nothing at all from the other." Results of the poll found that the two sides are at odds on nearly every facet of the crisis, from last week's protests in Kiev, to Ukraine's freeing of former president Yulia Tymoshenko, to Russian president Vladimir Putin's invasion of the Crimean Peninsula in defiance of Western warnings, with neither group seeing eye-to-eye on any of the developments' significance--or whether they even have any significance to begin with. Additionally, nearly half the U.S. public has put forth numerous breathtakingly naive potential solutions to the crisis--which range from economic sanctions on Russia, to economic sanctions on Ukraine, to deploying the U.S. military to the "middle of Asia" to solve the standoff--while an equal number of Americans firmly and repeatedly stated their commitment to not giving a shit one way or the other. Furthermore, sources are reporting that the deep ideological rift over the Russia-Ukraine conflict is visible in nearly every community and place of work across the country, with disinterested and misinformed Americans confirming they have repeatedly come into conflict in recent days. "It's incredibly frustrating to try to talk some sense into someone who doesn't realize that Crimea's very freedom as an independent nation is at stake," said completely ignorant San Jose, CA resident Carol Goldmacher, who admitted that she has clashed constantly in the past week over Ukraine with her staunchly apathetic roommate Lisa Suarez. "Talking to her is like talking to a brick wall. It's almost as if she doesn't even want to hear how Putin was kicked out of Ukraine by his own people and then retaliated by invading Crimea. Frankly, no matter how much I tell her that Obama's this close to breaking his silence and issuing a warning to Russia, it's just not getting through to her." "The bottom line is that Carol's views aren't going to affect my opinion," said Suarez of her roommate's constant uneducated opinions about John Kerry's upcoming trip to Kiev and her bizarre personal assertion that the invasion happened "suspiciously close to the Olympics." "My mind's made up, and I completely stand by my lack of interest in this issue. So Carol should just keep her mouth shut and let this situation--whatever it is--play out." According to reports, most Americans see little chance of the warring camps coming to any sort of reconciliation any time soon, as supporters on both sides appeared committed in their respective efforts to either gravely misconstrue the complicated crisis in Ukraine or remain checked out of the issue entirely. Still, some experts are holding out hope that the two groups may be able to someday see eye-to-eye on the thorny issue of Ukrainian sovereignty and Russian aggression. "As startling as these two factions' differences may seem at first, there's still opportunity for the two sides to come together and reach a compromise on the Ukraine conflict," said Collins. "When it comes to the situation in Crimea, there's a middle ground between ignorance and apathy on this issue that I think all Americans could happily live with."