Look, I'm only going to say this one more time. I did not play Bosley on . The character's name was Bosley, but he was played by David Doyle. Got it? Doyle. D-O-Y-L-E. As long as we're on the subject, I also didn't play Ted Atwater on , Francis Macklin on or Bridget's father Walter on . All of these were played by--yes, you guessed it--David Goddamn Doyle. You'd think that after almost 40 years in this business, people would have the decency to stop mixing me up with every half-wit with a SAG card. I mean, it's not like I haven't had a successful career. . . . Oh, and a little show called . Perhaps you've heard of it. You know, Fonzie, Ralph Malph and ? It was only the most popular program of the '70s. How long was on the air, three years? Tell me, how many of the big guns, the true show-business giants, has your precious David Doyle worked with? Wow, Farrah Fawcett-Majors and Meredith Baxter-Birney. Talk about your 5,000-megawatt star power. Tell me, was it Doyle who downed martinis with Dino on his hit variety show? No. Was it Doyle who co-starred with the spunky Sandy Duncan and the always-glamorous Debbie Reynolds on their popular sitcoms? Methinks not. And I don't recall Doyle ever guesting on , much less playing Sheriff Amos Tupper for four highly rated seasons. No, my friends, that was I, Tom Fucking-A Bosley. Of course, I mean no disrespect to the late Mr. Doyle. He was a man of great talent. After all, no one could touch his Grandpa Pickles on , especially not that charisma-free hack voicing him in the movie version. But just between you and me, let's face it: Doyle couldn't have pulled off Belle's father in the Broadway smash-hit , or Ben Franklin in John Jakes' acclaimed mini-series . And just imagine a world in which Doyle was the Glad trash bags' spokesman for over a decade. That is not the kind of world in which I would ever want to live. Oh, and speaking of commercials, I wasn't the Maytag repairman either, you dingbats. That was Jesse White, until he died. Now it's Gordon Jump, Mr. Carlson from . Which reminds me. I didn't play Mr. Carlson on , either. Or Tom Bradford on , or Doc Bricker on . Not even Chief Carl Kanisky on . Idiots. I'm Tom Bosley, dammit, and I don't need this bullshit. To hell with the whole darn lot of you!