ERIE, PA--According to sources inside the seating booth section, a Whaler consumed during Monday's lunch-hour rush is "not sitting too good" inside area man Don Turnbee. The "Whaler," a popular, processed fish-product sandwich distributed by the Burger King restaurant chain, was purchased by Turnbee at one of the fast-food giant's many convenient area locations. "Urggh..." a visibly ill-at-ease Turnbee said, tenderly patting his distressed abdominal region. "Urrp... Whoo, boy..." The sandwich, originally some form of aquatic life that was netted; chopped; flash-frozen into a rectanguloid; deep-fried and breaded in batter; shipped across America on trucks; and stored for several days, was finally microwaved to perfection before not sitting too good at its newest location within Turnbee. "Man, oh man," he added. "I shouldn't have put on that extra tartar sauce." The Whaler episode marks the 15th incident of mild gastrointestinal distress in Turnbee's recent dietary history. It comes on the heels of last weekend's media-dubbed "Pizza Roll Sunday," during which he felt slightly gassy and required several Rolaids tablets, as well as a 12-ounce of bottle of Kaopectate purchased at a late-night Conveni-Weenie Gas 'N' Snak, which Turnbee visited in an overcoat and pajamas. Though reports indicate that Turnbee also rented a videotaped copy of at this time, the rental is considered by most sources to have "little relevance" to his ongoing stomach upset difficulties. "Oof, I'll tell ya," Turnbee told reporters. Despite Turnbee's stomach distress, doctors say the Whaler incident is "no cause for alarm." "This whole Whaler thing should blow over before you know it," gastroenterologist Gary Muncie said. "I've known the Turnbees for years, and if you ask me, what Don really needs is a little more exercise. Get the circulation moving, breathe a little fresh air. I'd say 15 to 20 minutes of light exercise would do wonders for him. Of course, scraping off a little of that mayo couldn't hurt, either." Despite the optimistic medical prognosis, Turnbee is expected to experience slight discomfort well into tomorrow. Though his co-workers at Panama Bob's Office Supply Outlet Depot store are aware of Turnbee's condition, due to his repeated post-lunch exclamations of "Sheesh!" and "Whoah, nellie!" while shifting slightly in his work chair, most were not terribly concerned, feeling confident in his ability to weather the crisis. "Don's a veteran eater," said co-worker Stan Bluford. "A couple of weeks of fried chicken, and he'll be right back on the horse."