Damascus Herald-Star An area harlot exposed her face and neck to the naked eyes of several area men yesterday, stirring deep within them filthy and sinful desires. The harlot, area seamstress and mother of five Fatma al-Qaawi, was witnessed in the act of removing her protective headgear and veil in the town marketplace, in plain view of the public. According to witnesses' reports, after exposing the men to her brazen display of wanton, uncensored sexuality, al-Qaawi rocked back and forth slightly, allowing her hair to blow gently in the mid-morning breeze, deliberately goading the men into thoughts of hell-spawned lustful abandon. Although she quickly replaced the shawl and veil, the damage had already been done. Experts agree that in doffing her outerwear, the temptress was clearly in league with Satan. Witnesses reported experiencing feelings of rapture, awe and trembling admiration of her beauty, all known effects of succubi sent by Lucifer to suck Heaven's virtue from the souls of men. "Her hair shone with a thousand shimmering strands of purest gossamer, framing her lovely, nude face with a glory worthy of the raiments of Gabriel," witness Rafiq al-Jabir said. "It was clear that she was a powerful succubus, a vassal of demonic spirits from beneath Hell." Al-Jabir then retreated to a private chamber to scourge his back with merciless flaying in an attempt to quell his spiritual pain. The lust al-Qaawi provoked may have overcome and eternally corrupted the various men who could not avert their eyes in time to avoid glimpsing her exposed shame. Shortly after exposing herself, the harlot was stoned in the public square, saving the town's souls from the risk of growing contamination at the hands of her lurid, sinful perversion of all that is holy. Reports as of press time indicate that many of the witnesses' wives and daughters are currently forsaking their usual regimen of duties and instead singing triumphant hymns of praise and adoration to He Who Rules On High in thanks for the harlot's death. "The hair, the face, even a slight wedge of skin below the neckline--nothing was left to the imagination," one anonymous witness said. Shortly after seeing the shocking parade of scantily clad female flesh, the witness was overwhelmed by an intense compulsion to woo the woman, plying her affections with gifts of the finest ointments, vowing his undying devotion and forsaking all others, until the stoning began. "Her mortal frame was a vessel for damnation's temptresses to walk the earth in human form, leading the righteous away from God, and thus, needed to be brutally broken and cut down by the redemptive hand--the only kind of justice a harlot can know: sheer bloodletting," said area rug trader Malik al-Faziz, who organized the impromptu stoning by pointing at al-Qaawi and shouting, "Harlot!" while brandishing a large rock until others came to his aid. Reports indicate that so great was the temptation to sin caused by al-Qaawi's disclosure that 30 or more men felt a need to purify themselves by participating in the woman's stoning, which observers said took less than three minutes. "I am very sorry that I am related to my late sister, henceforth disowned by my family and referred to only as She Who Cannot Be Named," said al-Qaawi's youngest sibling Yasmeen in a desperate attempt to restore family honor. The harlot's corpse has been dragged through the streets in accordance with the law and then cut into pieces and fed to crows by her sons, all of whom have written to the town elders begging that their mother's depravity be forever stricken from all public record. "It is true that we are but lowly whoresons," a portion of their letter read, "but we pray that in God's wisdom our grandchildren will not be known as whores-grandchildren." The Council of Elders is currently debating this request. "Just seeing her face all naked made me wonder what else she had under those loose flowing robes. Arms? Legs? A writhing, painted torso? I am an unmarried man and have never seen a woman's body--not even in the heathen overseas broadcasts of the demonic women's gymnastics, about which horrible things I have heard whispered in the night," said one witness, who asked to remain anonymous. "Yet, from this day forth even my fevered dreams will not be free of my beloved, trouncing trollop, trumpeting the siren song of Satan." No fewer than 15 stonings and beheadings are expected as a result of the incident. All those who will be killed are confirmed demons.