I've got a lot on my plate this week, loyal Harveyheads. There's been an avalanche of events in the world of entertainment, so grab those boots! We're going snowboarding--in Hollywood! (As you may have noticed, I've added an intro to my column. It just seemed so impersonal to start it cold--pun definitely intended--so I livened it up with a little pizzazz to grease the skids. That's something you can look forward to from now on!) The 75th Annual Academy Awards wrapped up, so here's ! First, the ceremony was on the 29th of February, which only happens once every four years. was the lord of the Oscars, winning at least eight awards! (Sorry, folks--this Oscar fan fell asleep during hour three and lost count!) It was good to see former and Lennox air-conditioner heir get some recognition for singing and playing the part of the elf-princess . And who can forget the acting winners? won for . And the always-glamorous won for , a movie that I haven't seen, but I'm sure it's another great showcase for Charlize's stunning beauty! brought his mother to the ceremonies, which was a classy move--I bet it "made her day!" Speaking of classy, the gowns were gorgeous, but the magic was almost ruined by that . Apparently, she wrote and directed a movie about Japan, but I've never heard of it. Personally, if I were invited to the Oscars, I'd wear something more fetching, like that number was wearing, only in peach. Was it just me, or was this was the most tasteful Oscars I can remember? No horrible costumes, no unpatriotic outbursts, and no long-winded speeches. There wasn't a dry eye in the house for the tribute to , whose nose and zingers entertained Oscar watchers 17 times! And should change his name to Billy Diamond after his sparkling return to the podium. Let's "Hope" he can come back again and make it to lucky number 17, as well. But honestly? I feel like I may never watch the Oscars again. After this slam-bang production, the next is sure to be a huge letdown. is on the way. I'm already bringing up my boxes so I can retire my winter clothes. I still have to lose 10 pounds in time for shorts season! I'm not a huge sports fan, so I just heard what happened at the Super Bowl. During the halftime show, ripped off part of outfit and revealed her--pardon my French--bosom. Did we really need to see ? I like pretty women as much as the next guy, but I like to leave a little to the imagination. Shame on you, Janet. You've brought sports and entertainment to a new low. And that ring thing you had on your nickel was just trashy. As for , let's not go there, all right? I'm sick of people dragging his name through the dirt. Who to watch: 2004 will be the year for . Mark my words, we're going to see some big things from him. Not since someone took a picture of a crucifix in a jar of pee has been this hot! is the reigning king of the box office for 2004. Some people are a little put off by the way the movie treats . Some people are a little put off by the way the movie treats Jesus. Me, I was put off to find out that didn't play Jesus himself. But he is in the movie, playing troubled Roman leader . I won't tell you how the story ends, so you can judge the movie for yourself. Did you catch the last episode of ? No one I know has , but I heard that reunited with . Now that the show is over, everyone's already hankering for more. Thank goodness they're with everyone's favorite lovable oaf, ! My sources tell me the dour domestic doyenne, queen of quilting and (qu)rafts, is going to the big house, and I don't mean the one on the beach. I don't think it's fair. She may be an ambitious, frosty, uncompromising tyrant, but she was unequaled when it came to putting things in order. In the , we are guaranteed a trial by a jury of our peers. I find it unlikely that there were 12 people on Mrs. Stewart's jury who could whip up a seven-course meal and a decorative centerpiece unique to the event in an afternoon. What? Can this be it for another Outside Scoop? What more do you want? I think this installment has had it all: important awards shows, crime, nudity, and a healthy dose of movie magic. You want more, you say? Well, how's this? In the next installment, I'll have a little something about some Hollywood hookups and a review of the hottest TV DVDs, including and . Until then, light two candles: one for our men and women overseas and one for me as I take my seat... on the outside!