LOS ANGELES--Actor John Travolta was rushed to UCLA Medical Center Monday with a near-fatal tone-scale reading of 0.5, or "grief." Travolta, who has since been upgraded to 2.5, or "boredom," was quickly revived by emergency-room technicians, attending physician Stephen Citarella said. "Mr. Travolta was in extremely serious condition when he was brought in, but fortunately, he responded well to emergency touch-assist treatment and quickly began making rudimentary wins," Citarella said. "It's just lucky that his emergent condition was discovered before he completely went out of affinity with MEST." Travolta, star of and , was at home at approximately 10 a.m. when he reported feeling faint. A subsequent Electropsychometer audit by his personal physician revealed an alarmingly low tone, and he was assigned a condition of doubt and rushed to the hospital. Doctors are still uncertain as to what caused the longtime Clear's condition to deteriorate so rapidly. "It is quite a puzzle," UCLA Medical Center chief of staff Ronald Offerman said. "Mr. Travolta's reactive mind could be inhibited by an engram, if not secondaries and locks as well, throwing out the correctness of his computations. But how an engram or even a chain could have entered the reactive mind of an Operating Thetan like Mr. Travolta is hard to explain." "This is more serious than mere overts and withholds," UCLA's Dr. Randy Ferber said. "While more tests still need to be done, I suspect that an immense entheta implant, R6 or worse, has knocked Travolta down the bridge. It may even be possible that this occurred far back on his time track, and I don't have to tell you the shocking implications of that." Travolta's hospitalization has sparked an outpouring of support: The star has received thousands of cards, flowers and letters from concerned fans and fellow celebrities, including Tom Cruise, Kirstie Alley, Chick Corea and internationally renowned rock bassist Billy Sheehan. While many experts believe Travolta's illness is engram-related, Dr. Tobias Welch, the star's personal physician, has not ruled out the possibility that the problem occurred during training for OT Levels. "John may have been given some squirreled tech, in which case we would have to involve the RTC and unhat his Course Supervisor," Welch said. "This condition could have been exacerbated if he read some training materials and went past a word he didn't understand." Misunderstood words are one of three barriers to learning identified by Welch, a revolutionary in the field of education as well as a master cinematographer, adventurer, philosopher, author, poet, humanitarian, administrator, yachtsman, artist, composer, lyricist, war hero and nuclear physicist. When asked whether Travolta's condition could be traced to Xenu, the intergalactic overlord who imprisoned countless thetans on Earth 75 million years ago, Welch said: "I don't know what you're talking about." Doctors have also left open a small but distinct possibility that Travolta--who was slated to begin work this week on his next film, the sci-fi epic --was poisoned. "Certainly, a chemical contamination might be the explanation," Citarella said. "His food or water could have been tampered with by a wog, or maybe even an SP. Or, a psychiatrist or some other dead agent might have poisoned him with the killer drug Prozac, though it would've had to have been a very small amount to explain the minor extent of damage. But Mr. Travolta will be given a full Purif Rundown, just to be safe." While no charges have been filed, Travolta's wife, actress Kelly Preston, was called in for "routine questioning" Tuesday by LAPD officials, who have left open the possibility that she somehow enturbulated her husband. "We cannot afford to rule out anything at this point," LAPD spokesperson Frank Pistone said. "Mr. Travolta's wife may be a Potential Trouble Source, or even, shocking as it may seem, suppressive." If found to be suppressive, Preston could be RPFed, declared or even disconnected by Travolta.