What sort of am I? I was all psyched for the this year, as I am every year. Would look slim? Would be sporting his ? Who would take away the award? I couldn't wait to find out! The day of the show, I went out and bought myself all the provisions I would need, including a box of , a three-pack of popcorn and a six-pack of grape soda. While I was at the store, the video-rental section caught my eye. I saw they had and . I love those movies, so I decided to rent them. When I got home, it was about an hour before the Oscars, so I decided I would whet my appetite for with a teaser. Well, I should have known better. I always get by , and this time was no exception. I watched them both back to back. By the time I was done, the Oscars were almost over. I was so mad at myself! The singing, the dancing, the wisecracking-I'd missed it all! So if recorded it, please send me a copy. And don't tell me who won. Is going to be the century where nothing is left to the imagination? First, there's the matter of the Golden Globe Awards. , who is certainly lovely to look at, was wearing a dress that displayed more than a little of her chest, as well as her prominent posterior. Then there's teen sensation , who dresses like a and sings bawdy songs I certainly wouldn't want singing. Let's try to remember that there is a new generation we want to raise right, and we shouldn't have them exposed to this sort of thing all the time! Say, who does that song I keep hearing? I'm really getting into it! It's made me buy and already. Who knows what it will make me buy next? Rumors are flying about the next movie. At least, I imagine they are. has been sporting a new look in her movie Of course, I am referring to her hair. I don't know who her designer is, but he has done wonders with it. Why, her new hair even makes her breasts look larger. What is it? Kids everywhere are going ape for ! As a columnist who likes to have his finger firmly planted on the grapevine of what's hot, I had to ask some hard questions: Is it an animal? Is it a game? Is it a movie? All I know for sure right now is that it has something to do with More as this develops. The world was shocked by the Fox show First, it turns out that they were married, but they didn't honeymoon together, if you catch my drift. Then they went home separately. Then, it turns out, he wasn't really a multi-millionaire at all, but a and who motivated people to place restraining orders against him. Then it turns out that the bride said she was a Gulf War veteran but wasn't. This story is sordid and shameful, and everyone who was involved in producing it should be ashamed of themselves. Why would they put such a spectacle up on the screen where were forced to helplessly watch? I'm glad are finally getting their fair shake in Hollywood. I finally have to speak out on the scandal that rocked Tinseltown: the / feud. I love Rosie. I think her show is dynamite. And while I agree with Rosie 110 percent that guns are bad, I can't endorse her attack. Tom was just there to talk about his hilarious new movie (which I can't endorse enough!), and Rosie just started talking about something else. Come on, Rosie, you're better than that! The bottom line is, when celebrities fight, everyone loses. If there's a person alive who doesn't wish had a new series on the air, I haven't met 'em yet. I'm happy to report that no one famous has died recently. Maybe this new century will be one in which can live forever, promising a golden age in entertainment. And what an age it would be, because there are new celebrities coming out of the every day, and they'd be able to make movie magic with the old celebrities! And when that dream comes true, count on your old pal Jackie Harvey to be there to bring you !