Wow! Has it been 365 days already? It seems like just yesterday I was looking back on 2007. I guess it's true that time flies when you're having fun... This year really took the cake, though. Twins for , , and the return of But I'm getting ahead of myself. Let's now point backwards to the year that was 2008.... Before we look back, here's the first of my famous selections, where I put it all on the line and tell you what we can say "au revoir" to in the coming year. Nothing classes up a head like a hat. Unless you're at a gym or running a marathon, I don't want to see these. 2008 was the year of Peppy, good looking, and they can dance, too. was the song for the summer, fall, winter, and spring combined! Now, I love music, and I appreciate cryptic names, but I can't get my head around the Jonas Bothers. What a weird name! The Jonas Bothers...bothers whom exactly? It seems that they're all related, so you'd think that the Jonas Family would have been more appropriate. 2008 was the year of . Since there wasn't a new book to line up for at midnight the day it was released, I had to stand in line for a midnight sale of the new book in the series. I didn't know anything about it, so I had to buy all four at once, but you know what? It was completely engrossing! I sat down and read about the 100-year-old vampire falling in love with the 17-year-old girl and it took me back to a more innocent time, when I was a young boy hoping for someone exotic and beautiful to come take me away from the boredom of high school. Fortunately, I discovered the Movies, and that was the only exotic affair I needed. Oh, and the great thing about Twilight was that the first movie in the series also came out this year, and I was able to stand in line for a midnight screening of that as well! Firsties! Saying "Totes!" for "totally," or to provide an affirmation to something. Saying "Not!" to negate someone else's statement. 2008 was the year for Just when you think you've heard the last of them, this singing duo proved that they were still "Solid As A Rock" and had a baby boy named Weirdly, the singer from the band was somehow involved as well. I know, I know... . Am I right? 2008 was the year for . The teen drama that gave us Brenda, Brandon, Dylan, Steve, Kelly, Andrea, David, Donna, Valerie, Claire, Nat, Ray, Carly, Noah, Gina, and Matt came back with a vengeance! Only this new version is updated for today's kids, and has the edgier name . The show has just started, but already Kelly and Brenda are fighting about Dylan! Just a bit of advice, ladies: You should put your differences aside and use your experiences to help this new generation of edgier teens avoid the same problems. I don't care how good the viewing is. Okay? 2008 was the year for . I know, it's not like me to be political, but this was certainly the most entertaining election I can remember. The brought his A-game and really got people excited for politics. It was also the year for , who came into the race and electrified the other side of the aisle. She may have spent $150,000 on clothes, but if you ask me, it was totally worth it. That woman looked magnificent, and she had so much down-home spunk that you just wanted to listen to her tell it like it is all day. I won't say whom I voted for, though. We still live in , where a person's vote stays in the booth. 2008 was the year of , who died at 86. You may remember him from his catty-but-oh-so-devilishly-accurate commentary on celebrity couture. Even in his advanced years, he could still look at what a celebrity was wearing for one night and really let him or her know that he didn't like it, and say as much in a sharply worded press release. And God bless him for it. Celebrities are emissaries to how people should look, and it doesn't do anyone any good when one of them is traipsing around like a poster child for a fashion don't. Since there seems to be a vacancy in critiquing celebrity fashion, maybe I should step in and fill the void. Or if not me, I know a certain Ms. Palin who might be suited to using her sass to tell it like it is. What say you, readers?  Where else can you see cats riding vacuum cleaners?  I think it's time to change my screen saver. 2008 was the year for . The box-office sensation had everything you want from a movie-singing, dancing, and  . I saw it four times, and I'm still hoping it shows up under my Well, that wraps up my 2008 wrap-up. If wants to top it, it's going to have to roll up its sleeves and really knock my socks off! Until then, I'll see you...on the Outside!