MINNEAPOLIS--Explaining how the company remains innovative in a fast-paced industry, executives from DigiVista Media told reporters Wednesday that the marketing firm consistently positions itself on the leading edge of what its competitors have been doing for the past few years. "The landscape is always changing, so we're continually embracing revolutionary ideas that our rivals succeeded with in the past," said DigiVista senior marketing manager Aaron Reynolds, who credited this approach with keeping the groundbreaking company at the forefront of where the field was five or six years ago. "In this business, you have to constantly push the boundaries in terms of adopting strategies from other people that are by now well-established industry practice." "You just can't wait for inspiration to come to you," he continued. "You've got to see it come to somebody else first and then pounce on it once it's been thoroughly proven in the marketplace." According to DigiVista CEO Bill Hallihan, employees at his pioneering firm monitor what everyone else in marketing is doing, hastily restructure their business to do the exact same thing, and then watch to see what advancements the industry makes next. Hallihan said it's this commitment to innovation that allows his company to always provide its clients with the next ingenious product that has already been in use for quite some time. "Part of what makes us such trailblazers is our willingness to completely scrap what we're doing right now in favor of a strategy that's been fairly ubiquitous since 2013," said Hallihan, noting that he hopes a recent rollout of real-time bidding and ad exchange platforms will place DigiVista firmly atop the list of leading marketing firms of the beginning of the decade. "Our creative focus on methods developed by other companies is what's going to drive our business right to where the vanguard of this industry used to be." "Yeah, sometimes we have to push the envelope on what could be done in 2010, but we don't know any other way around here," he added. Hallihan hinted that DigiVista is preparing to disrupt the marketing world once more, this time by proactively embracing original concepts that its competitors put in place just 12 to 18 months ago. But he said such a gambit should come as no surprise to anyone familiar with the company's history of taking substantial risks to adopt the very same business plans that other, more successful firms were using just a short while back. "Whether it's native advertising or advanced data collection, if you can't deliver what previously paid off elsewhere, you're finished," Hallihan said. "But as long as there's that spirit of innovation in others, we're going to be around quite a while." At press time, sources confirmed DigiVista had adopted another years-old strategy of its competitors, laying off approximately 20 percent of its workforce.