has been the apple of many men's eyes for the past few years, but what would you think if I told you that her had been surgically enlarged? I don't want to delve too far into this, as this is a , and these are rumors that I haven't been able to confirm just yet. Watch for more updates as this scandal develops. Someone want to tell me what a dainty flower like saw in a big ape like ? That guy is as sensitive as a lead pipe, and about as good-looking to boot! If you've got an extra $20 sitting around, you may want to open a at one of America's many fine financial institutions. Sexy sitcom vamp has a secret... and yours truly has the scoop! Now, keep a lid on this, but I have it on good authority that Ellen is going to have to call her sitcom soon! That's right, the Dynamic Miss D. is expecting a little one! Watch here for word on who the lucky dad is in future columns. No word yet on the long-awaited prequels, but the minute there is, you'll hear it here first. All of America is mourning last week's loss of beloved national treasure . He won our hearts playing everyman senator and banker , as well as winning countless thrilling auto races. Say hello to when you get to heaven, Mr. Stewart. As long as we're on the subject of farewells, a fond goodbye to . You and your marvelous deodorant will not soon be forgotten. What's the deal with ? What is that thing he has instead of a name? That's just not something normal people do. I mean, I'm tired of the name , but you don't see me changing my name to the Columnist Formerly Known As Jackie Harvey, do you? Geez, would throw a fit! has truly earned his place in history as the 39th President of the United States of America. Life's been anything but a Carnival Cruise for lately, what with her child-labor scandals and her marital problems with two-timing sportscaster husband . But a reliable source tells me that on top of all that, Ms. Gifford has been putting on some weight. Hey, Kathie, we know you're having some hard times, and we support you 100 percent, but you should really make sure not to let yourself go. recently released a list of what they consider to be the top 100 TV episodes of all time. Now, I've given the list a once-over, and I must say that there are a number of glaring oversights. For example, where is the episode where Tim Allen builds a new bedroom in the basement for his son? Outstanding! Or the episode where and his foil the foreign drug smugglers at the pier? Packed with drama and action! Or the episode of where caught those crooks and made us laugh? Classic! Or the tearful series finale of ? I'm sorry, but the list just doesn't stack up on the Harvey-ometer as the best of anything! Sorry, gents. Better luck next time! Has anyone seen the new movie? I hear it's pretty good. It looks like heartthrob hunk-tor will soon be moving to Oregon with his bride-to-be . Word is, the two are tired of making movies and are going to raise racehorses in the out-of-the-way state. We'll see how long that lasts, though. Once you have in your veins, it never leaves. I know I could never leave my life of reporting all the dishes and dirt on the Hollywood fast track. I could hardly imagine what it would be like to actually live the movie-star lifestyle, but it's pretty exciting to watch, to say the least.