Remember ? Wasn't it nice to have a presidential daughter who wasn't posing for or getting drunk? Instead, she was her own sweet self, full of flowers and sunshine, bringing cheer to everyone she met. Now, she's all grown up and glamorous, thanks to an . It's nice to see Chelsea with her hair straightened sitting next to the likes of and at Italian fashion shows. Can acting be too far off in her future? Keeping my fingers crossed... All signs seem to point to killing his wife, but I simply refuse to believe it. After all, he once played Spanky in . How could such a cute little boy grow up to be a murderer? By the way, whatever became of Spanky's dog ? Anyone? If still needs a place to box, my is willing to set up a ring in his bar. N'Synger and navel-baring popstress seemed like they had it all--looks, wealth, and abs to die for. And, most importantly, they had each other. But it all came crashing down recently, when Justin told his Punky (his nickname for her) bye-bye-bye. Apparently, he couldn't take the pressure of dating someone who's in the news all the time. I just wish that once in a while, true love had a chance to survive the harsh glare of the media spotlight. Not to be tooting , but I knew long ago that would be an undisputed hit. I only wish I'd mentioned it in my column. I have a very reliable tip that will be leaving next season to turn his attention to the big screen. I've loved watching the good Doctor Green pay a housecall to my TV every Thursday, but I'm happy to announce that for his first post- project, he'll make a triumphant return to his role as Gilbert, the wise nerd in the movies. So while won't be the same, I can't wait for him to star in... big insider info coming up in five... four... three... two... one... ! A three-piece suit looks just as good if it's missing any one of the pieces. In my last column, I mistakenly referred to as . Boy, did I catch an earful for that one! I got about 100 letters from readers who called me all sorts of wild insults, like "nitwit," "brainless balrog," and "mindless son of an orc." Hey, I'll admit to making a mistake, but you don't have to get so personal! I'm man enough to take the criticism and apologize. There's a first time for everything, after all. I'll just have do some fact-checking for me in the future. The is coming up, and there's one movie that's on everyone's mind: ! I'm hoping, really hoping, that he'll say "Oh, behave!" in this one. I love that line! And let's not forget the new movie! (As if we could!) The hot tip I have is that pulled out all the stops and used a lot of incredible special effects for this one, including a light-saber battle that will knock your socks off. But, hey, you didn't hear it from me! Shhhhhhh! may have ended last month, but in another month or so, it's going to be high time for some cold soups. Seriously, if you haven't tried a nice chilled gazpacho, you haven't lived. I just got word that Seattle grunge singer died again! I don't know how this is possible, but it's true. Why is the road to musical stardom littered with the bodies of all the greats? , , , , , little , and now Kobain again. They are missed, one and all. Speaking of Joe C-related things, the big news is that Joe C's partner in musical crime, , is getting married to former babe ! The Kid Rock sure is a lucky guy, landing a woman as classy and pretty as her. that The Kid Rock is not only a rapper, he's a wrestler and actor, too? Talk about wearing a lot of different tank-top undershirts! Another Tax Day has come and gone, and I just barely got it done in time. It's hard to explain to the IRS that I need to see movies and get all the latest celebrity magazines as part of my job, so I included a letter explaining my write-offs, along with a couple of my columns. Hopefully, I'll be winning over a few new fans in the tax office. Well, that wraps it up for another edition of , served just the way you like it: . As for me, I've got a few weeks of vacation time coming up, and I'm going to hop in my car and go on a little road trip, driving wherever the old internal compass takes me. As you might guess, I'll probably end up in Hollywood. And if I do, you can be sure I'll tell you all about it in my next column. Then again, I may just spend my time off at home, cleaning up all the junk that's piled up around my house. Either way, one thing's for sure: I'll see you soon... in the balcony of the Outside!