It is time to face facts: Your boyfriend has nothing to offer you. He is a mean drunk, a liar, a cheater, and an emotional drain. He contributes nothing to your life but added stress and self-doubt. You have been together five months and he wants to move in, but never once has he said "I love you," and he never even refers to you as his girlfriend. Clearly, he only wants to live with you because he is two months behind in his rent and is about to get evicted. Stop making excuses for him. He cannot hold down a job because he is lazy, not because the jobs don't suit his talents or because he's making some kind of shrewd career move. What could possibly be redeemable about someone who steals money out of his girlfriend's purse to buy coke, and doesn't deny it or apologize when she calls him on it? You must recognize his manipulative behavior and not mistake it for love or compassion. When you confront him with very reasonable concerns, he tries to cow you with guilt or anger. It is not normal, it is not healthy, and it happens time and again. Your friends, coworkers, parents, brother, and sister all agree that he does not treat you well, that he is irresponsible, that he is mean and unpleasant. They simply cannot all be wrong. Your worry and pain far outweigh the good times you have enjoyed. Even sex is a chore with him. He tries to put the blame on you by saying you "did it all wrong" or he "always has to do all the work," but he only says that to mask his own physical inadequacy and excuse his selfishness. And do not defend him by bringing up the mix CD he gave you four months ago. It was one cliche gesture and they were all songs he liked anyway. There is no reason to continue being with someone who exploits your good nature and saps your self-confidence. You must break it off with him immediately. Period. Do not let him talk you out of it this time. None of that other stuff should matter when you love somebody. What, you're going to abandon someone who's battling an uncontrollable addiction--right when he needs you the most? Maybe the one who's being selfish. You haven't been working at it enough. Relationships are never easy. Don't be a quitter. If you keep on loving him no matter what, the chance this will work out can only improve! He'll finally realize how much he's been taking you for granted. He'll get a job, buy you a ring, and it'll be true love at last. It's going to be so awesome! Just think of how cute your babies will be! He can't be a drug addict forever. People change and grow over time. They do. I really believe it. But if you leave him now, he won't, and it will be all your fault. What he needs the most is a really supportive girlfriend who will help him get out of his $30,000 debt so he can record his demo and get steady DJ work again. He is going to be so appreciative. Maybe he'll write a song about you! If your family and friends won't accept your boyfriend, they probably aren't real friends or are just jealous. Heck, Mom and Dad never have anything nice to say about your boyfriends anyhow. Don't reject him like everyone else has. Just focus on your relationship. In time, everyone will realize how wrong they've been. He's a very smart, creative, unique guy, you know. Remember when he made you that mix CD? That was so romantic! Don't be so egotistical that you can't take a little criticism from him. Instead, you should thank him. True, he's not all sappy and lovey-dovey. But you see something past that gruff exterior that no one else can! Remember how depressed he was after the first time you forgave him for cheating? He didn't talk to you for weeks. Well, he learned his lesson. I have a feeling that the bumps in the road are behind you. The heart has a gift for knowing what the brain doesn't. Why throw this great thing away? I don't like saying this, but if you dump him, you do run the risk of never being with someone again. It could happen. And you remember how much it sucks to be single. So count your blessings. Whatever you do, don't let go! Every long-term relationship has its ups and downs. If you really love him, you've got to be in it for the long haul. That's what real love is all about.