What a sad, sad time the past few months have been for the entertainment industry. How can we even begin to enumerate our losses? Here's a start: We lost , and . All three series decided not to continue next season, preferring instead to go out with a bang. What am I going to do with my Tuesday, Thursday and Friday nights from here on out? Can another television show possibly fill the void? is devastated. In 1997, we also lost ... to a fella! It seems that she's going to marry a football player. Here's a little-known fact: In , "football" is what we here in America call soccer. They don't have real football there. I'm sure that if all of were to spend any time here in the , all five of them would be getting married to real football players. Three of them to alone! Since my last column, we also lost the laughter and the song. Both and U2's lost their lives in tragic skating accidents. Country boy died in an airplane crash. And corpulent funnyman died of unknown causes, though some speculate that it may have been because of his weight. How many more lives? Let's take a moment of silence to remember all of these brave and talented individuals. Remember, they were somebody's children just like you and me, despite their , and . It's just like the song. The year 1997 was a time to live, a time to die, a time to laugh, and--let us not forget--a time to cry. For every cloud, though, there is a silver lining. must have left a good impression at Princess Diana's funeral, because made him a knight and gave him his own duchy! As , he is entitled to go forth and collect taxes in the name of the queen and have up to seven indentured servants. Hopefully, this will give his the lifestyle she is no doubt accustomed to, because neutral Switzerland is flush with money. Is it just me, or has there been a lot of news from these days? Mind you, I'm not complaining. I find foreign cultures fascinating! Hey, speaking of news, mark your calendars, fellas-- finally turns 18 on Feb. 12 this year! Good luck, and may the best man win. Have you had an experience from a ? If so, I want to hear from you! Please write and tell me how you personally have been "touched by an angel." The best stories will be printed in this column in weeks to come! As long as we're on the subject, if anyone owned 1997, it was surely stars and . You go, girls! (Into an even better 1998, that is!) I got one of those to see what all the fuss was about, and I'll be darned if I can't put the little bugger down! I get pretty lonesome sometimes, but a few minutes with my little computer buddy, and I'm back to normal! They are so cute, the way they play, just like a real puppy or kitty would have if my mother would've let me have one. How about ? I like the singing and the dancing, but I sure could have done without the and the . Why doesn't Broadway just stick to the tried and true showstoppers, like and ? Well, I'll be taking a vacation next week to visit . If you live in Pittsburgh, you may spot me haunting the original or to get the flavor of the city. I may also stop by , because I've been told that I am very popular there. Until next time, I'll see you in lights--the lights of the magic city of Hollywood, that is!