Hey, how's it going? How are things? I know it's been a while, but I thought I'd check in to see how you've been and give you a quick heads-up about what's going on with me. So, yeah, just to fill you in, I'm being radicalized. Yup. My old worldview has been replaced by a hardline fringe ideology, and I would willingly commit mass violence in service of the extremist dogma that's consumed my every thought. I know, right? In a nutshell, my entire psychological state has shifted dramatically, and now I'm just a shadow of the kind, reasonable person I used to be. Actions that would once have filled me with revulsion now seem completely rational and justifiable, and I'm perfectly happy to sacrifice my own life, along with the lives of countless innocents. So, you know, that's kind of where I am right now. I suppose it's probably worth throwing out there, too, that at the same time I'm being drawn closer to a small group of homicidal zealots, I'm also cutting ties with old friends, family, and anyone else who formerly exercised any kind of moderating influence on my ideas and behavior. Let's see, what else... Oh, wow--I totally almost forgot to mention how pretty much every time I go online, I'm either reading more about how I'm part of a chosen few destined to cleanse the world of the impure, or else discussing my ongoing indoctrination into a destructive, fundamentalist belief system with others who have also been radicalized. I suppose it's probably worth throwing out there, too, that at the same time I'm being drawn closer to a small group of homicidal zealots, I'm also cutting ties with old friends, family, and anyone else who formerly exercised any kind of moderating influence on my ideas and behavior. Who knows, when the time comes I might even end up killing a few of them too! Kind of crazy, huh? Yeah, so I guess that's pretty much it with me. Ooh, wait, before I forget, I also wanted to let you know real quick that I'm pretty deep into this whole thing, to where I'm not just entertaining vague ideas of violence but have actually started to plan specific attacks, both on my own and in coordination with several of my radicalized peers. Just wanted to clue you in to that, in case two months from now you read about how I've died while committing some mass atrocity or something. Anyway, I think that's just about everything. Sorry if I've been talking your ear off, but I wanted to keep you in the loop about stuff. I guess I should really get going, though, or I'm gonna miss my plane. Take it easy!