For those of you unfamiliar with the TV commercial, you should imagine me waggling my tongue comically right now. It's very funny. But on with the news. Summer's here, and that can only mean one thing: ! There's , which is about a bunch of sexy girls with super powers who will "blow" you away. Then there's , which proves once and for all that isn't just another pretty face. Then there's , which I understand has sparked a major controversy, though I'm not sure exactly what. is about a boat trapped in a storm, and it makes us care about fishermen. The biggest box-office surprise of the season, however, is , starring and . I saw it last weekend, and I give it an "H"... for Hilarious! It's got characters saying all sorts of stuff from other movies, like, "I see dead people" and "I know what you did last summer." One guy even says, "Whassssuuuuup!!!!"-just like in that beer commercial! I don't want to give away too much more, but if you liked it when said, "Life is like a box of chocolates," you're gonna die laughing when you hear say it. Gross-out comedian and devilish Angel (because she's in the new movie) are getting married. They both have rocky pasts, but I'm sure they can be a stabilizing influence on one another. Plus, if someone as ugly as Green can marry a beautiful woman like Barrymore, there might be hope for me! and are getting divorced! The ex-lovebirds met on the set of in November 1985, when Quaid was a star on the show and Meg was the guest host. Apparently, life had not exactly been a of late for the couple, and they decided to go their separate ways. I wish the best to both of them, two of the classiest class acts in all of Tinseltown. And Meg, if you ever need a shoulder to cry on... Hey! When I typed Quaid into my computer's spell-checker, here's what it came up with: "quad," "quid," "queried," and "quail." That's pretty funny. Maybe I'll send that to  Bad News Bear died recently. He was crotchety and cantankerous, but he was always a familiar face to see on the scene. Sure, he may never have gotten the respect that his acting comrade got, nor did he get the roles he should have, but he did manage to get the girl from time to time, and he taught us that winning isn't everything. Walter, we'll miss you. Hey, did I mention that I took the ? I wasn't on TV, I just did it myself at home. And, boy, was I surprised by the results! Just when you thought nothing could knock off the top of the entertainment heap, along comes a little show called that does just that. The show is about a cast of people stranded on an island together who have to work together to survive. And, just like in real life, there are challenges and setbacks and girls in bikinis. Anyway, you should watch it because it's fascinating to see little societies emerge. If only everyone could get together and help one another like they do on , we'd have . There's also a show called where everyone is in a house together, but that's on five nights a week, and there are to watch. I just saw a news piece on about a rap singer named . Apparently, he sings profanity-filled raps about killing people and taking pot. And, sure, this is nothing new to music, but he doesn't balance it out with songs about love the way did. I wouldn't say that no one should listen to this kind of music, but maybe we should really look at what we and our children are listening to and decide whether it's right for us. I think in the case of M&M, we'd decide that it wasn't. I don't want a , but if I thought it would save my life, I'd probably get one. I have it on good authority that Hollywood bad boy is being considered to portray himself in a new biopic. As you may know, Stanton was in with Ringwald, and the two struck up a friendship. Well, I don't know which I'm more excited for: a new Harry Dean Stanton movie or a Molly Ringwald biopic. Good thing I don't have to choose! Speaking of Molly Ringwald, I'm not mad at her, but if I were, I'd refer to her as Molly Ring . Well, another week, another , served up just the way you like it: Hot! Now, I can't say anything just yet because I'm trying to verify it with sources, but let's just say for now that and stage performer may be... sensitive, if you know what I mean. If you don't, don't worry. I'll bring you more information next time. Until then, hold your breath and beat the summer heat with a trip to the movies. And remember, this scoop will stay on the outside... for you!