WASHINGTON--Saying there were no other options remaining and that continued intervention would only prolong the nation's suffering, experts concluded Tuesday that the best course of action is to keep the United States as comfortable as possible until the end. According to those familiar with its condition, the country's long, painful decline over the past several decades has made it clear that the most compassionate choice at this juncture is to do whatever is possible to ensure America is at ease during its last moments. "We need to accept the fact that the U.S. doesn't have long--simply helping it pass that time in comfort is the humane thing to do," said economist Danielle Martin, speaking on behalf of a large group of experts ranging from sociologists and historians to lawmakers and environmentalists, all of whom confirmed they had "done everything [they] could." "Attempting to stabilize the country in its current enfeebled state would not only be extremely expensive, but it would also cause unnecessary agony as it enters this final stage. With how hard the nation is struggling to perform even basic functions, letting it meet its end naturally is the merciful decision here." "We just need to remember all the good times we had. Like the moon landing--that was really nice, wasn't it?" Added Martin: "At the end of the day, it's nearly 240 years old--what can you reasonably expect?" Others agreed with Martin, saying that, with America having gradually become a weak, almost unrecognizable shadow of its former self, the priority now should be ensuring that it is given whatever palliative support it needs and using the remaining time to put the nation's affairs in order. Sources also emphasized that citizens who have not already begun to emotionally prepare themselves for the country's demise should begin to do so. "At a time like this, it's completely understandable to wish for some kind of 11th-hour miracle, but expecting the U.S. to somehow magically return to the way it was in its prime isn't healthy or realistic," said Georgetown University researcher Andrew Fischer, who later stressed that just because the nation still has "the occasional good day," this should not cause anyone to get their hopes up for a sudden recovery. "It's important to manage expectations and realize that sometime very soon, we're all going to have to say goodbye." "We just need to remember all the good times we had," Fischer continued. "Like the moon landing--that was really nice, wasn't it?" Many of those with close ties to the United States said they were having difficulty coming to terms with the country's imminent passing, but that letting it go peacefully was ultimately for the best. "At one point, I would've done anything if it meant having America around for just a little longer, but I can't watch it slowly waste away like this anymore," said Tampa, FL resident Kathy Muniz, adding that it "breaks [her] heart" when she sees how hard the U.S. struggles to put on a brave face and pretend that everything is fine. "The kindest thing now is to just do what we can to keep the nation's spirits up while nature takes its course." "Really, I think any country in America's position would want the same," Muniz added.