Passengers arriving in the UK from 04:00 GMT on Friday will need to self-isolate for 14 days. Grant Shapps taken overnight following recent "developments". It comes after health authorities in Denmark that can pass to humans was present in the country's mink farms. The announcement was made at around 01:30 GMT - two and a half hours before the change came into force. Mr Shapps called it a "swift decision" in "I understand that this will be concerning for both people currently in Denmark and the wider UK public, which is why we have moved quickly to protect our country and prevent the spread of the virus to the UK," he said. He said the "precautionary measure" was introduced at the recommendation of the government's chief medical adviser, Prof Chris Whitty. The decision about Denmark came less than 12 hours after Germany and Sweden were taken off the travel corridor list, which applies to the whole of the UK. Passengers arriving in the UK from Germany or Sweden after 04:00 GMT on Saturday will need to self-isolate for 14 days. Travellers currently in Denmark are allowed to finish their trips and are advised to follow the local rules and Foreign Office travel advice. Leaving home to go on holiday is currently banned for most people in the UK. In England, where a new national lockdown came into force on Thursday, people are still allowed to In Wales, which is in a "firebreak" lockdown until 9 November, the devolved government says people can People in Northern Ireland to "carefully consider" their holiday and travel options will be introduced in some areas over the coronavirus mutation found in mink farms. Bars, restaurants, public transport and all public indoor sports will be closed in seven North Jutland municipalities. The restrictions will come into effect from Friday and initially last until 3 December. This week, Denmark's prime minister said the country would Mette Frederiksen said the mutated virus posed a "risk to the effectiveness" of a future Covid-19 vaccine. The Scandinavian country is the world's biggest producer of mink fur and its main export markets are China and Hong Kong. Culling began late last month, after many mink cases were detected. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the to submit your question or comment or you can email us at . Please include your name, age and location with any submission. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.