Across Wales, there were 256 deaths in the week ending 18 December, which was 33 more deaths than the week before. This was 29% of all deaths, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) said. The overall number of deaths for this time of year is more than 20% higher than the five-year average. The total number of deaths in Wales involving Covid-19 now stands at 4,479. Looking at the number of deaths we would normally expect to see at this point in the year is seen as a useful measure of how the pandemic is progressing. So-called excess deaths, which compare all registered deaths with previous years, continue to be above average. In Wales, the number of deaths rose from 814 to 882 in the latest week, which was 164 deaths (22.8%) higher than the five-year average for that week. Aneurin Bevan health board again saw the highest numbers of weekly deaths in Wales, the most since the end of April, at the peak of the first wave of the pandemic. There were 63 deaths - 52 in hospitals and seven in care homes. The hospital deaths included 20 patients from the Caerphilly area. There were 61 deaths involving Covid in the Swansea Bay health board area, also its highest figure since the end of April, including 43 in hospital and 13 in care homes, in the week ending 18 December. Cwm Taf Morgannwg saw deaths rise to 49, including 30 hospital deaths in Rhondda Cynon Taf (RCT), the fourth highest number for a local authority across England and Wales. The figures also show: The which include those when Covid is confirmed or suspected as a cause by doctors. It estimates in nearly 90% of cases, it is the underlying cause of death. Although it takes a little longer to process death registrations than the , the figures are regarded as giving the fuller picture as they include deaths in people's homes and hospices, as well as all care homes and hospitals. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.