Miriam Stephany Giron Luna fell as she tried to climb the steel mesh barrier near El Paso, Texas on Saturday. She was taken to hospital where doctors tried to deliver the baby by emergency C-section without success. Officials say the case indicates a change in how migrants are trying to reach the US amid new restrictions. President Donald Trump has made the fight against illegal migration to the US a major policy issue and has taken measures to deter entry across the border from Mexico, including plans for a border wall. Large sections of the border near El Paso already have some form of barrier. Giron Luna was travelling with a 26-year-old man believed to be her partner and the baby's father, and fell more than 6m (19ft), . The man eventually found US border patrol agents, who called for an ambulance to rescue her. According to the statement, Giron Luna was taken to a hospital in El Paso with a cerebral haemorrhage, liver and kidney lacerations and a pelvis fracture. She underwent multiple surgeries but died from her injuries on Tuesday. The Guatemalan statement said she was seven months pregnant while US Customs and Border Protection (CBP) said she was eight months. who had "encouraged her and helped her climb" the barrier. "We will engage our law enforcement partners in Mexico to find those responsible for placing these lives in danger," she said in a statement. Media reports said Giron Luna was a social worker and beauty pageant winner and wanted to reach the US to help her family financially. Tens of thousands of people from Guatemala and neighbouring El Salvador and Honduras have tried to enter the US in recent years with many saying they are facing violence and poverty. The because they no longer surrender to US border patrol, Tekandi Paniagua Flores, the Guatemalan consul in Del Rio, Texas, told the Associated Press news agency. That is because , including the Remain in Mexico policy that forces asylum seekers from Central America to wait in Mexico until a decision on their cases is reached, have made it more difficult for many people to remain in the US once they are caught. The man who was travelling with Giron Luna is under US custody. Guatemala's foreign ministry said it had started the process to repatriate Giron Luna's body. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.