Among the banners were ones saying "Don't let the Nazis govern". The Freedom Party (FPO) - the junior partner - is among just a few far-right parties to have won power in the EU. The FPO and People's Party (OVP) plan to implement stricter rules for asylum seekers, after immigration proved a major concern for Austrian voters. The coalition says Austria will stay in the EU. The new chancellor is Sebastian Kurz, 31 - Europe's youngest leader. There was a heavy police presence outside the Hofburg Palace during the swearing-in. About 6,000 people demonstrated against the new coalition, the BBC's Bethany Bell reports. The FPO was founded by former Nazis in the 1950s, but today it denies any connection with Nazi ideology. The FPO has received some key posts in the coalition, taking charge of interior and defence, and being allowed to choose the new foreign minister. and the FPO says it wants to get the EU sanctions on Russia eased. The new foreign minister, Karin Kneissl, is a Middle East expert who speaks Arabic and Hebrew. She has accused German Chancellor Angela Merkel of "negligence" by allowing in record numbers of migrants. Controversially she also said the turmoil in the Arab world was partly caused by young unemployed men "who cannot find a woman today" because of their low status. The coalition plans to make asylum seekers hand over any cash they have when they submit an asylum claim, so that it funds their welfare. They will also have to hand over their mobile phones so that the authorities can see from their data how they reached Austria and whom they contacted. Phones will not be confiscated but there will be systematic checks. The FPO was in a coalition government before, in 2000. Back then there was a huge outcry and the government was left diplomatically isolated in the EU. But this time the reaction has been far more muted. In 2015 Austria was at the heart of the EU's migrant crisis, when more than a million asylum seekers arrived, hoping to reach Germany. Most did move on to Germany, but Austrian resources were severely stretched and the crisis fuelled anti-immigration sentiment. Many were refugees from the wars in Syria, Iraq and Afghanistan. In Germany the numbers were more than 75% lower. According to the new Austrian government's plans: "No longer will it possible for migrants who haven't worked here a single day and have paid nothing into the system to get thousands of euros in social security!" He added: "On this point we in the Freedom Party have stuck to a central electoral promise!" in Europe when it introduced similar measures. Sebastian Kurz, OVP. The 31-year-old was foreign minister in the outgoing Austrian government. Herbert Kickl, FPO. The party's general secretary and campaign director, 49, was a speechwriter for the late party leader Jorg Haider and is a close confidant of Mr Strache. Karin Kneissl, nominated by the FPO but not a member. The former diplomat, 52, speaks eight languages and is not afraid of controversy. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.