Melbourne, Australia's second largest city, endured a heavily-policed lockdown from July to October which succeeded in eradicating a second wave. But on Thursday, officials announced eight new cases with a "potential link" to a traveller from New South Wales, of which Sydney is the state capital. Authorities have vowed to act quickly. A mandatory mask-wearing order and gathering limits have been re-imposed on Melbourne by officials in the state of Victoria, who described the outbreak as a "very serious situation". They have also expanded a travel ban to include all residents of neighbouring New South Wales (NSW). "Victorians who have sacrificed so much are not going to go back to a situation where we face what we did in the past winter," said state health minister Martin Foley. "Now that we have links to the New South Wales outbreaks in Victoria, we are having to respond really quickly to get on top of that." Since 21 December, . However, the new Melbourne cases are believed to be linked to a woman who visited before the restrictions came in, Victorian officials said. Australia has 165 active local infections, with almost all of them tied to the outbreak in Sydney, which has worsened in recent days. The re-emergence of the virus there two weeks ago prompted the NSW state government to impose swift restrictions on its capital, including limiting gatherings and locking down a section of the city. These measures had appeared to be working, with the city reporting only single-digit daily case increases amid intense contact tracing efforts. But on Wednesday, believed to be tied to Christmas gatherings, prompting alarm and further restrictions. The government has urged residents to limit their New Year's Eve activity. Experts fear that the holiday will become a super-spreader event. NSW reported 10 new cases on Thursday, including one not linked to known clusters. The NSW government is facing pressure to make mask-wearing mandatory in public spaces, including from the Australian Medical Association. Officials have urged mask use but resisted imposing an order. "This is a very unpredictable, contagious disease, but we also appreciate that we don't want to put more burdens on our citizens than we need to. It's a very fine line," NSW Premier Gladys Berejiklian told reporters. On Thursday, South Australia and Victoria joined Western Australia in also enacting a travel ban on anyone coming from the entire state of NSW. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.