In Caerphilly, the bonfire night fireworks display, Christmas lights switch-on and lantern parade are the latest to be axed. The National Eisteddfod and Green Man Festival in August are also off. Some events, including the Hay Festival, Urdd Eisteddfod and Royal Welsh Show, were rejigged to take place online instead. Winter festivities are due to the pandemic's impact on preparations and uncertainty over what restrictions will remain in place. has cancelled its fireworks display, Christmas lights switch-on and lantern parade citing restrictions on large gatherings and the planning required for such events. said Santa experiences at its outlets in Radyr, Cardiff, and Wenvoe, Vale of Glamorgan, would not take place, saying it would be "irresponsible" to go ahead while there were "so many unknowns". Beauty and the Beast, due to run from November to January, has also been postponed as the theatre warns of the risk of financial losses if any of the cast or production team fall ill with Covid-19. Wales' largest annual event, the until 2021 due to coronavirus restrictions. The Eisteddfod plans to move the 2021 Llyn and Eifionydd event to 2022, and the 2023 festival will be held in Rhondda Cynon Taff. The annual Llangollen International Musical Eisteddfod in July has also been called off this year. The Green Man music festival, held annually near Crickhowell, Powys, has been cancelled "with deep sadness". The 2020 event was due to be held from 20 to 23 August and had acts including Michael Kiwanuka, Gruff Rhys and Boy Azooga on the bill. Organisers said the festival will return in 2021 and current tickets will remain valid. , which is one of the most important UK festivals for showcasing new bands and artists, has postponed its 10th anniversary event in Wrexham for a second time. Originally it moved from May to October this year, but it will now be held in October 2021 with this year's tickets still valid. Swansea Council said two outdoor theatre events planned for Oystermouth Castle in August have also been postponed. Major venues including St David's Hall and the Wales Millennium Centre in Cardiff are closed until further notice. Venue Cymru in Llandudno said it "will not be staging shows or screening films at this time". It was converted into a field hospital earlier in the year. The Royal Welsh Show in July was cancelled but . The annual event, held in Llanelwedd, Powys, usually draws almost 250,000 people from 40 different countries and organisers said . The Anglesey Show said it had made the "difficult decision" to cancel its August event for health, welfare and safety reasons, though it is considering hosting a smaller event later in the year. Organisers of the Abergavenny Food Festival in September said they were unable to find a suitable way to run this year's event safely but hope to return to the Monmouthshire town's streets in 2021. Meanwhile the Rhyl Air Show in August has also been cancelled, with officials expecting social distancing measures to still be in place. Looking further ahead, the next April has already been called off. Numerous mass-participation events, which raise millions of pounds for charities, have also been called off. Cardiff Half Marathon, the third biggest running event in the UK, has been postponed until March 2021 while the Newport Marathon and 10km races have been pushed back to April next year. The 40th anniversary Swansea Bay 10km has been delayed until September 2021. Snowdonia Marathon organisers said it was with "very heavy hearts" that the decision had been made to - which was due to take place on 24 October - until 30 October 2021. Among other events cancelled is the Long Course Weekend in Tenby, Pembrokeshire, due to go ahead in July, which last year attracted a record 10,000 competitors. Often used as training for those attempting Ironman Wales, organisers say the three-day event, comprising a cycle race, swim and marathon, has generated PS27m for the local economy. More than in the Ironman Wales event in Tenby, Pembrokeshire, in September. The event is said to be worth PS3.7m each year to the local economy and is set to return on 12 September 2021. The , described as the "toughest" cycle event in the UK, which starts and finishes at Margam Park, Port Talbot, has also been cancelled. However organisers of the Carten 100, an annual cycle from Cardiff to Tenby, the popular charity event to 19 September. Rally North Wales was also been cancelled due to the pandemic. Some event organisers found ways to go ahead, even without live audiences. The launched a free digital version of its usual programme, while the Machynlleth Comedy Festival was replaced by by BBC Radio Wales. The , attracting video entries involving more than 4,000 children. The Welsh-language Tafwyl Festival streamed a virtual event live from Cardiff Castle. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.