In other regions of England - in tiers one to three - Christmas bubbles will now only be allowed on 25 December. Similar plans have been announced in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland. In England's tier four areas, residents will only be allowed to celebrate Christmas with members of their own household and support bubbles. They will not be allowed to travel to other tiers to see family and friends. More parts of south-east and eastern England from 00:01 GMT on Saturday 26 December. Residents will be asked to stay at home and all non-essential shops must close. In areas in tiers one, two and three Christmas bubbles will no longer be across five days. Instead, three households coming together will now only be allowed on Christmas Day. People in these tiers are also being asked to stay local. They will not be allowed to host people who live in a tier four area. In (two households) and (three households up to a maximum of eight people), Christmas bubbles will also only be allowed on 25 December. In both countries, people are being advised not to form a Christmas bubble, even though they are permitted. In Scotland, travel to and from other parts of the UK will not be allowed over the festive period. has also cut its Christmas bubble window to a choice of one day between 23 and 27 December. It is being flexible to make allowances for people who are working on Christmas Day. Bubbles can meet each other: In England, the government advises people to avoid travelling to other areas and only to stay overnight with someone else if absolutely necessary. You cannot go to the pub with members of your Christmas bubble. In England, if you have formed a with another household, that counts as one household. In Scotland, says any Christmas bubble should contain no more than one "extended household". should not join a Christmas bubble. If someone tests positive, or develops coronavirus symptoms up to 48 hours after the Christmas bubble last met, everyone has to self-isolate. Under-18s whose parents live apart can join two Christmas bubbles, so they can see both parents without being counted as part of another household. University students who will be counted as part of their family household straight away. But if a family has three or more grown-up children not at university, they cannot all form a Christmas bubble with their parents, even in areas where mixing is still possible. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the to submit your question or comment or you can email us at . Please include your name, age and location with any submission. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.