Robyn Knox, from Cardenden, was hit by a blue Nissan Micra in Main Street in Townhill near Dunfermline on Monday. Her parents Danielle Falconer and Barry Knox said their daughter was "the best thing to happen to both of us". They described Robyn as a "loving, kind, gentle and caring wee soul". Primary school teacher Danielle said she was "genuinely broken" by her daughter's death. "Our baby was so unbelievably loved by everyone and will continue to be loved for the rest of time," she said. In a joint statement, Danielle and Barry said: "On Monday, our lives were shattered into a million pieces and for now we really don't know how we will ever be back to normal without our princess. "Robyn was the best thing to happen to both of us. "We will forever remember the loving, kind, gentle and caring wee soul that blessed our lives with the biggest heart of gold." Her parents said she had been "super excited" about becoming a big sister at the end of this year. "We will make sure her baby twins know about her and speak about her every day," they said. "Her sassy attitude made her into the little diva, it provided her with so much personality and confidence. She was the strongest little person we ever met, right until the very last second. "We hope we can carry that strength with us." They added that their daughter loved freestyle dance. "We love you unreal amounts baby girl. We hope you keep dancing up there and giving everyone attitude like you did us. "This is not a goodbye, it is a see you soon. Mummy and Daddy love you until the end of the earth and more. Sleep tight our angel baby." Sgt Stephen Quinn, of Police Scotland, said: "Our thoughts remain with the family of Robyn at this extremely difficult time. "I wish to send my thanks to the emergency service crews and members of the public who assisted at the scene." Police Scotland have appealed for anyone who saw what happened or who may have dashcam or CCTV footage of the incident The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.