Lockdowns are in place in England, Wales, Northern Ireland and most of Scotland, where the rules around takeaways and alcohol are being tightened. Scotland has a five-level system of local coronavirus alerts, but the entire mainland is currently in the top tier of restrictions - level four. All pubs, restaurants and cafes must remain closed in level four areas, although they can still offer takeaways. From Friday 15 January, . Businesses will have to operate from a serving hatch or doorway. From the same date, it will be against the law to drink alcohol outdoors in level four areas, meaning pubs can no longer offer takeaway pints for outside consumption. Level three restrictions apply in Orkney, Shetland, the Western Isles and all other Scottish islands apart from Skye, Bute, Arran and Gigha (which are in level four). In level three, premises are allowed to open - but no alcohol can be sold, and they must close at 18:00. Customers have to provide their contact details in case contact tracers need to reach them, and must wear face coverings while moving around and when not eating or drinking. It is mandatory for staff to wear face coverings, and only table service is allowed. Cafes, restaurants, pubs, bars and social clubs across the whole of England are currently closed. However, they are allowed to provide food and non-alcoholic drinks for takeaway until 23:00 GMT, and for click-and-collect and drive-through services. Food and drink - including alcohol - can continue to be provided by delivery. Wales is currently in alert level 4 which means restaurants, cafes, bars and pubs are closed. They can offer takeaway and food delivery services, as long as reasonable measures have been put in place to stop coronavirus spreading. This includes ensuring that a 2m distance is maintained between everybody on the premises, as well as people queuing up outside. Bars and pubs may sell alcoholic drinks to take away but only if they already have a licence to do so. Food can also be provided to homeless people, including for consumption on site. Cafes, restaurants, pubs, bars and social clubs must remain closed, apart from providing food and drink for takeaway, drive-through or delivery. Businesses providing takeaway services must close at 23:00 and off-sales must stop at 20:00. Outdoor areas must not be used. The provision of food and drink in motorway services, airports and harbour terminals is allowed. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.