Here are some readers questions about the latest travel rules. You will not need to quarantine when returning from Dublin. However, the UK is currently on Ireland's "orange" list. This means that once you get to Dublin, you will need to restrict your movement as much as possible. This includes only going to shops and the pharmacy in exceptional circumstances, and you are not advised to see others. No, you don't need to quarantine when you get into France. However, you will have to when you come back to the UK for 14 days. Additionally, it is worth checking whether there are still any local lockdown rules in the region where you're going. All passengers landing in Greece must have , which includes a QR code. This can be either printed or on your phone, according to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. It can take up to 14 days for coronavirus symptoms to appear, according to the Department of Health and Social Care. The period between catching the virus and showing symptoms is known as the incubation period. During incubation a test might not be effective at picking up symptoms. You should try and organise the funeral remotely as much as possible and ask friends or family to help wherever possible. However, the government guidelines do allow for you to leave the house to attend a funeral during quarantine. Remember, funerals are currently subject to their own strict rules, including a maximum 30-person limit. It's not entirely clear. At the moment, the government does not publish the criteria for its decisions regarding quarantine, although it is thought to take into account a number of factors, such as the number of people affected, the number of deaths and the country's testing capacity. Croatia was put on the list because it has recently seen a spike in infections. There have been calls for more transparency about the process. Earlier this month, MPs on the Home Affairs Select Committee urged the government to publish the analysis behind its decisions, saying: "It will build more support for the difficult balancing judgements it has to take if it is open about the evidence behind them." Not necessarily. If you travel through the Netherlands and you don't stop in the country, you will not need to self-isolate when you return to the UK. If you do make a stop in the Netherlands, you can still avoid quarantine if: Travellers from affected countries - including UK nationals - are asked to provide an address where they will self-isolate for 14 days. They can be fined PS100 for failing to provide these details. One in five eligible passengers will be called or texted to check they are following the rules. People who do not self-isolate can be fined up to PS1,000 in England, Wales and Northern Ireland and PS480 in Scotland. There are fines up to PS5,000 for persistent offenders. You do not need to isolate but your parents do, if they are returning from a country on the quarantine list. Moving out would be one solution to this, but you could stay at home as long as you are able to avoid contact with each other as much as possible. says: "It's important to avoid as much contact with other people as possible in your home in order to reduce the risk of transmitting coronavirus. You should stay in a well-ventilated room with a window to the outside that can be opened, separate from other people in your home." As your parents will not be able to leave home (except for emergencies) during the self-isolation period, they may be glad of your assistance bringing food shopping to the house, for instance. Yes she does. Anyone who arrives in the UK from Portugal before 0400 BST on 22 August still has to self-isolate for two weeks. If you are already self-isolating, you need to continue doing so for 14 days after you arrived in the UK. The Department for Transport (DfT) says that 04:00 BST is a quiet time for flights, so there's less chance of travel disruption. With countries such as Croatia, Austria or - to take those added to the quarantine list last week - France and the Netherlands, the public health risks were not considered so high that quarantine needed to be introduced immediately. By allowing 36 hours' notice, the DfT said it could give travellers as much notice as possible and allow quarantine to be implemented successfully. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office publishes foreign travel advice for every country in the world The Travel Health Pro website - which is produced by the National Travel Health Network And Centre (NaTHNaC)) - also and goes into more detail on the situation in each one. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the to submit your question or comment or you can email us at . Please include your name, age and location with any submission. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.