At a Republican election night party at a restaurant called The Pines in Hazleton, Pennsylvania, Trump fans began the night cautiously optimistic, transitioning to jubilant as state after state was called for the billionaire candidate. "I have never doubted him. It's been a whirlwind, it's been magical," said Trump volunteer Jen Sloot at the beginning of the night. But the celebration came to an abrupt halt just after 02:00 east coast time (07:00GMT), when Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta announced that there would be no concession. Later, Clinton did call to concede to Trump - but it came after the bar closed, as did Trump's speech. "They robbed us of our glory, these media people," said Thomas Sloand, another enthusiastic Trump supporter who knocked on hundreds of doors and attended rallies throughout the campaign. Hazleton, a coalmining city about two hours north of Philadelphia, has seen its manufacturing base erode, and a huge spike in its Hispanic population. Roughly 15 years ago, the city was nearly all white - today, the Hispanic population is estimated to be at nearly 50%. In response to the rising number of Hispanic migrants, in 2006 the then-mayor of Hazleton, Lou Barletta, passed a law called the Illegal Immigration Relief Act, which fined landlords and employers for hiring or housing undocumented immigrants. The ensuing legal battle over the law made the town a national symbol for the battle over immigration. Mr Barletta went on to become a congressman, and has handily won re-election. He was one of Donald Trump's earliest supporters, and arrived at The Pines to give a short victory speech and watch the returns for president come in. "Ten years ago I fought the battle of illegal immigration here in Hazleton when nobody else in the country, no politician wanted to touch it," he said. "I knew Donald Trump was on the right side with the people. He didn't back down." In addition to concerns about immigration and crime in their city, many small business owners said their health insurance premiums have skyrocketed this year, which they blame on Obamacare. Mark Ondishin, a 51-year-old tyre shop owner, said he provided a healthcare plan for his seven employees, but doesn't know if he can afford it in 2017. "I can't give them any more raises," he said. "This is why people are frustrated. That's why they're voting for Trump." Early in the evening, when things started looking good for Mr Trump, the party atmosphere picked up, even as some vowed there would be corruption by the other party. "He has to get so many votes that even after the Democrats cheat, he's still the winner," said Mr Sloand. As news rippled through the room that AP had called the state of Pennsylvania, which would have put the final nail in the coffin of the Clinton campaign, the partygoers grew jubilant. "Call it!" they began shouting at televisions mounted on the walls, "USA! USA! USA." Soon after, Mr Podesta made the announcement. Clustered around a cardboard cutout of Donald Trump, the roughly 50 holdouts at The Pines broke into cries of disbelief. "The Clinton crime family is trying to steal the election, no doubt about it," said Rod Cusumano, an Army veteran. The crowd began reluctantly putting on their coats and trickling out into the chilly night. "I'm going to send this song out to Hillary and say good night to you all," the deejay boomed into a microphone and playing, one last time, the song that always ended Trump's rallies: the Rolling Stones' You Can't Always Get What You Want. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.