In June, a Sinn Fein motion was passed by Armagh City, Banbridge and Craigavon Borough Council, which proposed that a group of representatives would take part in the event in August. But, on Monday, it was quashed with largely unionist backing. Sinn Fein councillor Catherine Nelson said LGBT ratepayers "deserve equality and parity of esteem". "We live in a rainbow society which is inclusive and open to all," she told BBC News NI. Some councillors cited the PS500 cost of facilitating up to 30 council staff members as a reason. Ms Nelson said the cost was being used "as cover for the narrow-minded political interests and continued denial of rights by some parties on this council". Last month, a motion to fly the rainbow flag over civic buildings across the same council in August was passed by four votes - 21 councillors voted in favour of the motion and 17 against. Alliance councillor Eoin Tennyson, who tabled the flag motion, said while some unionist councillors voted in favour of it, they abstained from the motion about the parade. However on Monday, they backed other unionists who wanted to overturn the Pride parade decision. "This would've been a small, but incredibly significant gesture of support for the LGBTQ+ community in our borough but particularly for LGBT members of staff within the council," Mr Tennyson told BBC News NI. "Some councillors cited the cost of participation - a mere PS500 - as their reason for voting against this proposal. You simply cannot put a price on equality and acceptance." A spokesperson for the council said that after the original motion was passed, council officers explored the option of taking part in the parade and submitted a report for consideration. She said: "Elected members decided at last night's council meeting not to participate in the parade." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.