The Scottish government data for 2019 showed an increase of 13.4% on 2018 - meaning the country generated 30.5 TWh of electricity from renewable sources. That's enough to charge almost 6.7bn mobile phones for a year, or boil about 700bn kettles. The target is for 100% of the country's electricity to be generated from renewable sources by the end of 2020. And good progress is being made - in 2009, it was only 27.2%. But we won't know whether Scotland has met this target or not until more data is published next year. Although electricity only makes up part of the mix of the energy Scotland needs, the amount of energy produced in Scotland from renewable resources increased between 2017 and 2018 to 21.1%. The Scottish government said to decarbonise energy-intensive industries, heating buildings and transport, renewable electricity supplies would need to be further enhanced. of energy demand across electricity, heat and transport. In order to achieve the target, Scotland has been moving away from burning fossil fuels, with the last coal-fired power station, . The only remaining gas-fired power station is at Peterhead in Aberdeenshire. Onshore wind delivers about 70% of capacity, followed by hydro and offshore wind as Scotland's main sources of renewable power. Scotland's largest single source is the Beatrice offshore wind farm. Its 84 turbines - each with three 75m (246ft) blades - went into operation last year. The wind farm is The Seagreen Wind Farm, under construction off Angus, will eventually be even bigger and . While the pandemic has led to a temporary dip in greenhouse gas emissions, there is still requirement for fundamental changes in the way we live our lives in order to achieve net zero. So what are Scotland's climate change targets, and are they the most ambitious in the world ? The Scottish government has set itself a legally-binding target to , five years ahead of the The Scottish government says its targets are "the toughest anywhere in the world". They are certainly among the most ambitious. However, other countries - - have passed legislation with the same goal. Sweden did so two years before Scotland, and it has also set milestones along the way. But Scotland's milestone targets are more ambitious and include emissions from aviation and shipping. They also don't rely on international credits, which is where elsewhere instead of reducing their own. Much progress has been made, but the hardest changes are still to come. Emissions of greenhouse gases - such as carbon dioxide - have been cut to . However, much of this progress has been accomplished by picking off the "low hanging fruit" - the most cost effective or publicly-acceptable changes to make. The areas that need tackling are transport (about a third of all emissions), farming and land use (about a quarter), business and heavy industry (about a fifth) and how we heat our homes. Tricky decisions will have to be made, especially with so much of Scotland's economy based around the oil and gas industry. A Scottish government-appointed commission is grappling with the question of how to protect the economy and ensure a "just transition" so oil workers and farmers don't lose out as the world moves away from fossil fuels. The commission has already published some advice to the Scottish government on how to make recovery from the pandemic greener. It says include investing in warmer homes, supporting bus travel, and attaching green conditions to funding. Transport accounts for about a third of Scotland's greenhouse gas emissions and some steps have been taken to reduce this but the overwhelming majority of vehicles on the road are still greenhouse gas-emitting petrol or diesel engines. it wants to have "phased out" the need for new petrol and diesel cars by 2030 - and hopes to reduce the use of cars generally, with the number of kilometres driven to be reduced by 20%. There are now more than 1,500 publicly-available charge points in Scotland for electric vehicles and the number of new EV and hybrid cars registered in the UK was up nearly 40% on the same period last year. But for many drivers an EV is prohibitively expensive and concerns over the range the cars can currently offer is a concern for some potential owners. Their popularity is expected to increase significantly as the technology gets better but this will see demand for electricity generation rise too. The UK government's Scotland now has more than 1,500 charging devices, and across the UK there are now more charging locations than petrol stations. Of course, this year has seen some huge changes to everyone's lives. During lockdown, the whole country was asked to stay at home unless leaving was essential. In Scotland, everyone who can work from home was asked to keep doing so. That has had a big impact on how often we travel, how far, and how we get to places - and as the number of Covid cases has risen, travel has dropped again. train travel was down by 85%, air by 75%, concessionary bus travel by 60%, and ferry journeys by 55%. Despite the public being advised to avoid public transport where possible and not to car share, car journeys were still down by 25%. But the pandemic doesn't mean planning for a greener future has stopped. that will see polluting vehicles banned from entering city centres (and receive a penalty notice if they don't comply) are planned for Aberdeen, Edinburgh and Dundee but so far only Glasgow has introduced measures which only apply to 60% of buses that enter the zone. Because of the pandemic, implementing the low emission zones was , but officials have vowed to see the changes through "at the earliest possible time". In a bid to discourage commuters from taking their cars to work, the Scottish government brought in the . It allows councils to tax businesses on staff parking spaces but, so far, no councils have committed to introducing the levy this year. As well as cutting road transport emissions, the government needs to find a way to stop the growth in emissions from air travel. Since 1990, emissions from international aviation from Scotland have increased by 181% and , showed they were still increasing. The overall statistics have not been released yet to show the impact lockdown had on aviation emissions. But, , the mass grounding of flights during the peak of the pandemic saw CO2 emissions from aviation reduced by up to 60%. The Scottish government has also after facing a backlash over the environmental impact. Electric-powered planes could be a solution to aviation emissions, but they are still at an early stage. Plans for the shortest scheduled flight in the world - the 1.7 mile jump between the Orkney islands of Westray and Papa Westray - could happen soon. high consumption of meat and dairy produce is fuelling global warming, and researchers based in Scotland have been investigating ways of reducing the environmental impact of farming. For example, one group of scientists has found a way of . About 15% of Scotland's emissions come from domestic housing, with most homes (about 80%) still relying on gas central heating systems. of having 50% of all new heating systems being installed to be zero-emissions models by 2025. Instead of gas, heating systems should use renewable energy, or rely on low-carbon alternatives such as heat pumps. And from better insulation and new, more efficient - although still often gas - heating systems, funded by the Scottish government. Trees are still the most effective way of absorbing CO2 from the atmosphere. To meet targets, the UK needs planted every year for the next 30 years - equating to about 1.5bn trees. Figures claim most of the trees planted in the UK were planted in Scotland - . By 2024, to be creating 18,000 hectares of new woodlands per year, with the ultimate goal of having 21% of Scotland's land covered by forest by 2032 - compared to 19% today. - it's important that the right trees are planted in the right places, taking into consideration factors such as soil type, water levels, temperatures and the surrounding landscape and tree species. Use the tool below and we could be in touch. If you are reading this page on the BBC News app, you will need to visit the mobile version of the to submit your question on this topic. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.