Eamon McCourt, 62, who reportedly died with Covid-19, was buried on Monday. Under current The police said a "significant number of people" had gathered, in a manner "likely to be in breach" of the coronavirus regulations. PSNI Ch Supt Darrin Jones said anyone found in breach of public health regulations will be reported to the Public Prosecution Service. He said police had "engaged with representatives of the family of the deceased, the local church and local political representatives", prior to the funeral. "As a result, police were given a number of assurances as to the conduct of the funeral, and that people would seek to pay their respects to the deceased from outside their homes rather than gather at the funeral." Pictures of the leading republican's funeral show men in white shirts and black ties flanking the cortege and dozens of others behind them. Ch Supt Jones added: "Regrettably at the funeral on Monday morning, a significant number of people gathered as part of the cortege, in a manner likely to be in breach of the health protection regulations." Unionist politicians had called on the police to act after images circulated online of mourners. DUP MLA Gary Middleton said those who had abided by Covid-19 restrictions would view the scenes from the funeral "with dismay". He said it was "hard to put into words the sheer recklessness of those involved". "Within republicanism it seems that certain individuals are viewed as being more important than public health regulations," Mr Middleton said. "In those minds the reality of Covid-19 has not been brought home, or at the very least it is viewed as less important than having a public display at a funeral. "Such sights are most painful for relatives who have recognised the need for such painful restrictions to be put in place and have abided by them." Ulster Unionist councillor, Alderman Darren Guy, also condemned the photographs. "Eamon 'Peggy' McCourt who passed away on Saturday morning was buried from his family home in Creggan, a right accredited to us all. "However, it was evident that social-distancing measures and permitted mourner numbers were completely ignored by those in attendance. "Again, the majority of people in Northern Ireland who have followed lockdown measures since March 2020 are asking themselves why can republicans do whatever they like?" He called on the police to explain why such "a large funeral procession was permitted to take place and what actions will follow". In a statement, Sinn Fein said: "Everyone has a responsibility to follow the public health guidelines. "Sinn Fein held its own tribute to his memory online." In June last year, about 1,800 people . Among them was Deputy First Minister Michelle O'Neill, the Sinn Fein vice-president, who later admitted the public health message had been undermined. In May, Assistant Chief Constable Alan Todd said there had been social-distancing breaches at funerals in Northern Ireland in both the unionist and nationalist communities. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.