A burnt-out camper van belonging to Kam McLeod, 19, and Bryer Schmegelsky, 18, was discovered on Friday on a highway in northern British Columbia. Days before, tourists Lucas Fowler and Chynna Deese were found shot dead 500km (310 miles) away. Police say Mr McLeod and Mr Schmegelsky were seen driving out of the province. The body of an unidentified man was also discovered 2km (1.2m) from the young men's burnt out van, which was found close to Dease Lake. The two suspects were previously described by police as missing, with the implication that they might also be victims of a killer. In a news release on Tuesday, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) wrote: "Given these latest developments, . "The RCMP are considering Kam McLeod and Bryer Schmegelsky as suspects in the Dease Lake suspicious death investigation and the double homicide of Lucas Fowler and Chynna Deese." Australian Lucas Fowler, 23, and American Chynna Deese, 24 were on a two-week-long road trip across Canada, where Lucas Fowler had been working. The couple were found shot dead on the side of the Alaska highway 20km south of Liard Hot Springs - a popular tourist spot. Police believe they were killed on the night of 14 July. Their 1986 blue Chevrolet minivan was found near their bodies, and eyewitnesses told media they had earlier seen the pair on the side of the road when their van had broken down. Mr McLeod and Mr Schmegelsky had been on their way to Yukon territory for work last week and have not been in contact with their families since. Police say they were spotted driving a grey 2011 Toyota Rav 4 through northern Saskatchewan. They do not know their destination and have warned the public they are "considered dangerous" and should not be approached. It has not been identified but police believe the victim was a man in his 50s or 60s. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.