It was Democrat vice-presidential pick Kamala Harris's birthday yesterday and the cast of the Avengers held a fundraiser over Zoom where they got to question her. Harris was joined by Scarlett Johansson, Don Cheadle, Chris Evans, Paul Rudd, Mark Ruffalo, Zoe Saldana and Robert Downey Jr. The session led some to comment that it seems Meanwhile, another Avengers star, the apolitical Chris Pratt, was abused online because he did not join the Biden-Harris fundraiser, prompting co-stars of the Marvel franchise to leap superhero-like to his defence. The Biden team has kept a lower profile in this campaign, leaving it open to accusations that it has not come under as much scrutiny as Donald Trump has. No other president has put himself on the stump quite like he has. During Kamala's run for the presidential nomination, the BBC's Hannah Long Higgins got to put a question to her. This was her experience: "We were doing a story on the women candidates who were at the Iowa Polk County steak fry. We had tried and failed to position ourselves in front of, or near, them for the better part of the day. "Our only shot to speak with Harris or Senator Elizabeth Warren - or anyone, really - was to position ourselves not where they were, but where they would be. "Just when I thought it would never happen, the crowd parted and Senator Harris stepped right in front of me. "I said: 'Senator Harris, is there an advantage to being a woman running for president?'? 'Absolutely,' she said. I said, tell me more. And she did." You can watch the exchange . In not a pro-Trump face mask if you are a policeman. This is a tweet from a Democrat activist who spotted a policeman  and saw it as voter intimidation. Here is Police Officer Daniel Ubeda, in full uniform with badge and gun wearing his Trump mask inside of the polling location in government center. This is city funded voter intimidation. Ubeda should be suspended immediately. It did not take long for Miami Police Chief Jorge Colina to say this was unacceptable, although the police officer's union argued that police officers have the right to free speech. In last week, a poll worker was fired for turning away voters wearing Black Lives Matter t-shirts. Tennessee is one of  those states where clothing supporting a candidate or a party is not allowed at a polling station. Although it is probably a bit of a grey area, political slogans are allowed. The other nine states where clothes supporting a party or a politician are banned at the polling booth are and It's going to be busy: The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.