On Monday, the 32-year-old pop star said he found out six weeks ago that he has a grade IV glioblastoma. He later : "We truly are overwhelmed with everyone's love, support and positivity. "We have had so many people reach out with positive stories and it's been incredible." He added: "We are fighting this - thanks to everyone behind us fighting alongside us. Let's do this." His bandmate Max George replied with the words: "You got this", having posted a longer message of support on his Instagram account on Monday.  A post shared by (@maxgeorge) on His other bandmates also rallied round, with Siva Kaneswaran saying "we are with you all the way".  A post shared by (@sivaofficial) on Jay McGuinness replied to Parker's original Instagram post with the words: "You've always been one in a million. I love you Tom, let's get popping." Nathan Sykes also tweeted words of encouragement, writing: "Tom will attack this with the same vigour that he has with everything he has ever set his mind to." I've been trying to work out what to say for days, but there are simply no words. It's just the most unbelievably cruel situation. However, Tom will attack this with the same vigour that he has with everything he has ever set his mind to. Other messages came from the likes of Olympic swimmer Rebecca Adlington, who wrote: "Sending so much love and support always." "We love you Tom!" added The Only Way Is Essex's James "Arg" Argent, who appeared with Parker on ITV's cancer fundraiser The Real Full Monty in 2018. "We got this brother, No doubt about it!" Presenter Rylan Clark-Neal described Parker as a "gent" on Twitter. Sending love to a gent and a good one. [?] always the "cock of the walk!" Xxx Parker achieved fame with the boy band in the early 2010s, reaching number one with the singles All Time Low and Glad You Came. Since they went on hiatus in 2014, he has played Danny Zuko in a touring production of Grease, and made the semi-finals of Celebrity Masterchef. He married actress Kelsey Hardwick in 2018. The couple have a 16-month-old daughter, Aurelia, and are expecting their second child. Parker suffered a seizure in July and was put on a waiting list for an MRI scan. Six weeks later he had another, more serious seizure during a family trip to Norwich and was rushed to hospital. After three days of tests, he was diagnosed with cancer. On Monday, the couple telling fans that Parker had begun chemotherapy and radiotherapy treatment. "We are gonna fight this all the way," they said. "We don't want your sadness, we just want love and positivity and together we will raise awareness of this terrible disease and look for all available treatment options." Glioblastoma is the most aggressive of brain tumours in adults. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.