The couple, who got married in May, visited some of the region's most well-known sites on a whistle-stop tour. They were greeted with cheers at each stop of their eagerly-anticipated trip and, in one case, chants of "Harry". The tour took Harry and Meghan to Chichester, Bognor, Brighton and Peacehaven. In Brighton, the duke's arrival was soundtracked by a chorus of "Harry, Harry, Harry" as well-wishers caught their first glimpse of the sixth in line to the throne. He was photographed at the town's pavilions eagerly exchanging handshakes and high-fives with a group of schoolchildren. While on the final leg of the tour, in Peacehaven, Meghan was spotted rushing to the aid of one young girl who stood in the crowd in tears. The kind-hearted duchess was seen holding 10-year-old Kara Fairhall's hand and comforting the youngster for some time. Speaking later, Kara said: "I felt a lot better afterwards and I said thank you to her. "She's really nice and I was really happy I got to meet her." Elsewhere, Harry and Meghan met dozens of other royal fans, viewed historical artefacts and were treated to musical performances. Here's how the day unfolded. When they finally arrived in the West Sussex cathedral city, Harry and Meghan were met with a rapturous reception. The duchess was seen dabbing her eyes and greeting people with smiles amid the chorus of cheers. Both spent time mingling with crowds on a royal walkabout, where many school children waited, hoping to hand gifts and flowers to the royal pair. Harry met two-year-old Tobias Henning, playfully tickling the toddler as he greeted him. The Duke of Sussex playfully tickles two-year-old Tobias Henning during a walkabout in .  Meanwhile, the duchess was seen shaking hands, hugging, or being given flowers by some fans. Among them was Ellie Penfold, from Chichester, who said Meghan looked "very happy". "We told her how much we loved her wedding dress and talked about the wedding," she said. "She looked very pleased to see everyone and [was] very natural." For the visit, the duchess chose a camel Armani coat, worn with a dark green Hugo Boss skirt and a shirt from And Other Stories, paired with nude suede stilettos. Harry, meanwhile, cut a dapper figure dressed in a grey suit and open-necked white shirt. Away from the adoring masses, the duke and the US-born former actress were shown a copy of the US Declaration of Independence, during a visit to Edes House. Upon seeing the manuscript, one of only two contemporary handwritten ceremonial manuscript copies, the duchess told staff it was "just incredible". In Bognor, the duke and duchess were greeted by a crowd of students at the University of Chichester's Engineering and Digital Technology Park. After officially opening the campus, the duke jokingly asked students in an animation and special effects class if they had been "waiting for hours". Moving onto an engineering laboratory, the couple donned safety goggles as the duchess pushed the button on a Mecmesin machine, which tests the durability of materials. "It's a very cool machine," she said afterwards. Before their departure, Harry and Meghan listened to the student chamber orchestra perform a piece from Vivaldi's Four Seasons. Speaking to the musicians, the duchess said the piece was "so impressive... beautiful". Cellist Laura Ritchie, 44, a professor of learning and teaching in the music department, said it was "a privilege" to meet the royal couple. The Chicago-born musician said: "They joked that I've lost my accent." The couple were met by crowds with balloons in Brighton, where the first stop was the Royal Pavilion - the former seaside palace of King George IV, the duke's great, great, great, great uncle. The pair were met by chants of "Harry, Harry, Harry". After visiting the pavilion, the couple made their way to the Survivors' Network, a charity in the city that supports survivors of rape and sexual assault and which last year helped more than 1,500 people. Jay Breslaw, its director, said there was "a mood of real jubilation in the office". "We recognise the huge importance to us as a small charity in Sussex, and particularly in this time when funding is difficult, funds are being cut," she said. Rosa Monckton, who runs a community enterprise in Brighton helping young adults with learning disabilities, and who was a close friend of the duke's mother, Diana, the Princess of Wales, said: "I think it's really good to see them taking on his mother's role. He's very much his mother's son." The couple's last stop was the coastal town of Peacehaven where they met young people at the Joff Youth Centre. Large crowds gathered to greet the couple with loud cheers. At the youth centre, the pair heard about its work on mental health and wellbeing. The duke and duchess met some of the young people who use the centre, which offers them a space to relax, a music room and other activities. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.