Karen Thorp, 51, from St Albans, believes she caught the disease in March while attending choir practice. She left hospital in May after spending time in intensive care and said writing down what happened had helped her cope. Addenbrooke's Hospital, in Cambridge, said it would use her story to "review and improve" care. Ms Thorp, a type 2 diabetic, said her first symptom was "a scratchy throat". Days later, she fell on to her face on her doorstep and was taken to Watford General Hospital after a neighbour dialled 999. At one stage a do-not-resuscitate order was placed on her when she was moved into intensive care. She emerged from sedation three weeks later, by which time she had been transferred to Addenbrooke's Hospital. Now on a phased return to work at a special school, she still has muscle pains, two numb fingers and has had some hair loss. Ms Thorp, who lives alone, praised NHS staff who "saved" her life but agreed to share her experience as she thought it would be "useful". "There were details that were quite important for them to know, such as nurses saying 'don't worry, she is hard of hearing, she can't hear you', when I could hear them, and not changing the date on the wall in the ward which made me confused," she said. "What was interesting is that until I'd written it down, I hadn't found a way of saying it to anyone else." It also highlighted a period of time when she was conscious but cannot remember anything that happened, even though she made phone calls and sent photos to her family. "I can cope with not remembering the three weeks in the ICU (intensive care unit) because I was asleep, but when there's evidence you were awake but you don't remember it, that's hard," she said. "This is the bit I find difficult, that's harder than anything, so I now realise how important memories are." On her battle with coronavirus, she said: "It's quite horrendous and people need to know that. It gets the message out there how serious it can be." Addenbrooke's Hospital said it would "use her story, and others like it, as we continue to review and improve the care we provide". The spokeswoman said many patients were encouraged to write down their memories. "This can help them to come to terms with their illness, and ultimately assist with their recovery," she said. Psychologist Dr Nicholas Troop, from the University of Hertfordshire, said there was evidence that "expressive writing" helped people link "facts and feelings". "Other evidence suggests that writing is helpful when people develop new ways to manage emotions," he said. But he said it could have negative impacts if people did not use it to develop "new insights or strategies for dealing with emotions". Ms Thorp said she felt recording her experience was "almost like putting it to bed a little bit". "It's there to read if I want it, so I don't have to think about it in between," she said. "Personally, it's been important, cathartic and has made a difference." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.