No agreement has yet been reached on the payment plan for the project, which is expected to cost at least PS110m. The initial cost of the project was estimated at PS77.5m, with the GAA agreeing to pay PS15m of the total. However, a series of delays has led to an increase in cost, with at least PS32.5m extra now required. The Ulster Unionist Party (UUP) insisted that if the GAA (Gaelic Athletic Association) is not prepared to increase its financial share, it should consider reducing the size of the planned 34,500-capacity stadium. The Department for Communities, which is overseeing the project, said it is too early to finalise the funding arrangements. However, the UUP said the onus is on the GAA to come up with the extra money. The party's sports spokesperson, Andy Allen MLA, said: "The reality is that the Casement Park project has already been allocated PS62m of public money, which is more than football and rugby combined received for the redevelopment of Windsor Park and Ravenhill. "To expect the public purse to come up with another PS33m is simply not viable." He added: "The GAA needs to cut its cloth to fit its budget. If the GAA wants a 34,000 stadium then it - not the public purse - needs to make up the difference between the PS62m that was promised by the executive under the Regional Stadia programme in 2012 and what the GAA wants to spend now." In response, an Ulster GAA spokesperson said: "The funding agreement committed the GAA to PS15m, and any variation in that position will have to be by agreement of both the Department for Communities and Ulster GAA." In October last year, it was announced that planning approval for the stadium had been . Later that month, the then Stormont Minister Caral Ni Chuilin said the GAA should consider . The Department for Communities says the full planning process has yet to be completed. A spokesperson said: "Officials are working with their counterparts in the Department of Finance and the Ulster Council GAA project team, as they finalise updates to their Casement Park draft full business case, which will remain in draft until all matters associated with the planning process are concluded." In a draft budget announced by Stormont Finance Minister Conor Murphy earlier this week, an initial PS20m was allocated to the Casement Park project. The money is part of the previously announced funding. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.