Choose rent or buy, how many rooms you want the property to have and how much you'd like to pay each month. If you're buying, you also need to enter your deposit, as you won't get a mortgage without one. This interactive content requires an internet connection and a modern browser. View View The national average is This calculator assumes you need a deposit of at least 5% of the value of the property to get a mortgage. The average deposit
                                                    for UK first-time buyers is . The national average is Your monthly payments are what you can afford to pay each month. Think about your monthly income and take off bills, council
                                                    tax and living expenses.  You have a big enough deposit and your monthly payments are high enough.
                                        The prices are based on the local market. If there are 100 properties of the right size in an area and they are placed in price order with the cheapest first, the "low-end" of the market will be the 25th property, "mid-priced" is the 50th and "high-end" will be the 75th. The map also shows which end of the local market matches your budget - so you might only be able to afford something towards the lower end of the market in but your budget could stretch to property at the higher end of the market in , for example. If you are struggling to find a property you can afford, you may have to increase your deposit.  The average deposit for first-time buyers in the UK is PS54,770, according to March 2020 data from the . First-time buyers in are looking at an average deposit of around PS150,762, almost three times the national average. Whereas, in , and , first-time buyers need to find deposits of around PS25,000-PS30,000. The "Where can I afford to live?" calculator uses pricing and rental data for the 12 months up to the end of June 2020 provided by residential property analysts . There is not enough recent data available to show figures for Northern Ireland Monthly mortgage payments are based on the figures calculated by the Bank of England from rates currently being offered by banks and building societies. The rate used is for two year, fixed rate mortgages, so would only be relevant for the first two years of the loan. Every month, the Bank of England brings out figures for people wanting a mortgage for 75% or 90% or 95% of the value of the property they want to buy. So currently the calculator assumes you need a deposit of at least 5% of the value of the property to get a mortgage. House prices are based on sales recorded by the Land Registry and Registers of Scotland plus Red Book mortgage valuation - where a surveyor has valued a property for the purpose of mortgage lending. Rents are based on monthly prices being asked for by landlords. The average rent in the UK is about PS951, according to . You may find that the map suggests you can't afford to live where you are living now - but this might be because the price of property in your area and interest rates have changed since you got your mortgage. If you were trying to get a mortgage to buy your house today, you might need a bigger deposit and larger monthly payments. If there are fewer than 25 properties matching your criteria in an area, it will come up with "no data". Figures based on a smaller number of properties would be unreliable. When using the calculator, your postcode is required so that the BBC can provide you information on housing costs in your area. The BBC is the data controller of the data you enter here. For more information see the . (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.