So, what sort of masks should be worn and where? With new, more contagious variants of the virus circulating, some experts and officials are questioning whether people should wear more protective masks in some places. Germany and Austria have made medical-grade masks compulsory on public transport and in shops. These are made from non-woven fabric, which is better at stopping spray and droplets. The highest level of protection is provided by FFP3 (or similar) masks worn by healthcare workers in high risk settings to safely do their job. Cloth face coverings do not give the wearer as much protection. But the World Health Organization says it has no plans to change its guidance recommending fabric facemasks for the general public. This is because the new coronavirus variants are transmitted in the same way. Cloth face coverings should mainly be worn to protect other people from coronavirus, rather than yourself. If everyone wears one, the risk for all goes down. When worn correctly, they should cover the nose and mouth, which are the main confirmed sources of transmission. They can help to reduce the spread of the virus from people who are contagious, including those who have no symptoms, or are yet to develop them. There is also although they are not a replacement for social distancing and hand-washing. Face coverings (or masks) are compulsory across the UK when: People can be refused travel for not following the rules, or fined. In England and Northern Ireland the police can issue a PS200 fine. In Scotland and Wales, a PS60 fine can be imposed. Repeat offenders face bigger fines. In and , face coverings are also compulsory in a number of indoor spaces, including: Scotland also requires face coverings , such as staff canteens and workplace corridors. In , face coverings must be worn in all indoor public places by customers and staff. In , they must be worn in "any other indoor place where goods or services are available to buy or rent". Some people . They include: You can remove your mask if: Young children should not wear face masks because of the risk of choking and suffocation. Government guidance says . You should not seek medical advice, or request a medical letter, and the government does not provide exemption cards or badges. However, the government has provided which people can use if they wish. There is more specific guidance about face coverings and exemptions in , and . . The government because of measures already in place. However, each nation has different rules: The BBC has on how to make your own face covering. The government has issued too. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.