If you live in Birmingham, Sandwell, Solihull or Wolverhampton, you are not allowed to socialise with anyone outside your household in your house or garden - and you cannot go into anyone else's. The only other person you could socialise with in their house or garden would be a person you have formed a with - and that would have to be a person living on their own, or a single parent with children under 18. These rules do not just apply to you while you are in the West Midlands - people living in the affected areas cannot socialise in the homes or gardens of anyone else across the country. Pretty much everything else you could do since the national lockdown was loosened. If you live in the West Midlands you can continue going to pubs, restaurants, cafes, parks and attractions, and can do so with people from other households - provided you abide by the national " . You can also go to work, and children can continue going to school. This is key to understanding the reasons for the local lockdown. Data has shown that, in the West Midlands, the virus has been spreading more rapidly because of contact with other families within each others' homes. "What we're seeing most strongly from the evidence is that people are meeting up behind closed doors and just forgetting to keep the two metres distance," explained Dr Justin Varney, director of public health at Birmingham City Council. "They're going in for a handshake or a hug. They're passing a plate of biscuits from each other and that's spreading the virus and we're particularly seeing that where people have gathered with multiple households behind closed doors, being the kind of epicentre of some of these clusters. That's not to say we haven't got clusters in other places, but the strongest evidence at the moment is for that and therefore we brought in additional regulations." Pubs, restaurants, schools and workplaces have had to implement strict safety procedures such as one-way systems, hand gel stations and social distancing, and for this reason they are viewed as being a safer place to socialise than inside a home. "They've got to have a clear plan that keeps you safe," Dr Varney explained. "We're not seeing a huge amount of spread in those settings where they are managing them safely. Where they're not, yes we have seen some cases and we are doing stuff and all [the] councils are working together in terms of making absolutely crystal clear what we expect from hospitality." The situation in the West Midlands has been different to that of Bolton, where pubs and restaurants have been ordered to close because data there showed cases were rising mainly among young people socialising in venues around the town. But if the West Midlands cannot get its cases down, then it too could see hospitality venues penalised. "It depends on what we all do and how well we abide by this, how well we abide by the rule of six and the other guidelines that are out there," said Dr Varney. "We'll either stay here or we'll keep climbing the ladder and we may well end up like Bolton with a curfew, with takeaway only with almost full lockdown again. It's up to us to avoid that." The Covid-19 safety plans at schools appeared to be working, said Dr Varney, despite some having to send class or year "bubbles" home after a confirmed case of coronavirus. "What we're not seeing at the moment is any clear evidence of spread within schools," he said. "What we are seeing is the evidence of the social stuff outside of schools like birthday parties. Multiple children have gone to the same birthday party and are testing positive and that's leading to three or four bubbles in the same school having to be sent home to isolate." Yes, you are free to travel anywhere and socialise with others outside of their household - but must not enter anyone's house or garden, and must always abide by the rule of six when out and about. Yes you can. However, you must not stay in the same accommodation as another household - only with members of your own household or support bubble. "You treat it as a household unit - and you can go anywhere as that household unit," said Dr Varney. "But you can't go into anyone else's house or garden and you can't share accommodation - like a cottage or a caravan - with anyone that you don't live with." When the restrictions were first brought in, friends and relatives could not look after a child they did not live with. However, Health Secretary Matt Hancock has since announced an under the age of 14. It came after , Saqib Bhatti, MP for Meriden, and others wrote to the government asking if the rule could be relaxed, saying parents would struggle to work without help looking after children. Yes, existing arrangements between children and parents living separately can continue as normal. Yes, this is exempt from the restrictions. However, people are advised to keep visits short and to adhere to for working inside another person's home. If people are coming to your house to carry out paid employment, then that would be allowed under the rules, provided they followed national safety guidance such as social distancing. Although it probably feels a bit strange that you can welcome a TV repair man into your home but not your parents, it is based on what an unlikely event it would be for you to feel compelled to hug the person fixing your television. Estate agents are also able to continue showing people around homes, provided they follow guidelines such as wearing face coverings and minimising numbers of people inside houses. Mobile hairdressers, beauticians and cleaners can also continue working inside people's homes. Unfortunately, it is not as simple as reaching an ideal infection rate that will mean the restrictions are lifted. The chief medical officer, Department of Health Care Services (DHCS) and the local authorities will continue to monitor the virus in the West Midlands, such as looking at how it is being transmitted, before deciding if the areas must remain on the national watch list. The situation will be updated every Friday, with details added . The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.