UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson reshuffles cabinet positions, two months after winning the general election. Who's in it? UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson reshuffles cabinet positions, two months after winning the general election. Who's in it? The controversial former Vote Leave campaign director has quit as the PM's top adviser. New UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has appointed his cabinet. Does it reflect 'modern Britain'? BBC correspondents break down some of the tricky policy issues in the new prime minister's in-tray. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson reshuffles cabinet positions, two months after winning the general election. Who's in it? The controversial former Vote Leave campaign director has quit as the PM's top adviser. New UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has appointed his cabinet. Does it reflect 'modern Britain'? BBC correspondents break down some of the tricky policy issues in the new prime minister's in-tray. The controversial former Vote Leave campaign director has quit as the PM's top adviser. New UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson has appointed his cabinet. Does it reflect 'modern Britain'? BBC correspondents break down some of the tricky policy issues in the new prime minister's in-tray. The controversial former Vote Leave campaign director has quit as the PM's top adviser. It is the first European nation to pass the landmark, with 595 deaths recorded in the past 24 hours. Boris Johnson has been in power for a year, is he delivering on the goals set out in his first speech? By Francesca Gillett & Lucy Webster BBC News Boris Johnson and his fiancee, conservationist Ms Symonds, have welcomed a baby boy. By Justin Parkinson Political reporter, BBC News Dominic Raab's been criticised for his comments on Boris Johnson's coronavirus, but is this fair? UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson reshuffles cabinet positions, two months after winning the general election. Who's in it? The former PM thinks the job of heading the COP26 summit should go to a government minister. By Roger Harrabin BBC environment analyst Boris Johnson has failed to lead over the UK's hosting of a key climate summit, its former boss says. By Nicholas Watt Newsnight political editor Riding high after election win, the Tories prepare for EU showdown Boris Johnson and Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn pay tribute to NHS staff and other public sector workers. This election's been full of historic results - but what does the future look like for you, the parties and Scotland? By Manish Pandey Newsbeat reporter It's a busy day for Boris Johnson as he resumes his role as prime minister. Bosses have called on the prime minister to secure the future terms of trade with the EU. The prime minister tells the BBC that he has not offered a peerage to Nigel Farage. By Tom Edgington BBC News If MPs agree to vote for an early general election, how quickly could it take place? Liberal Democrat leader Jo Swinson requested a break to let the PM ask for an extension. Boris Johnson says he is not compelled to ask for a delay to Brexit, despite Letwin amendment vote. The shadow Brexit Secretary warned MPs against the prime minister's agreement By Tom Edgington BBC News Analysis The Queen's Speech will be the second in two months. Email us at Send an SMS or MMS to Follow