The four devolved nations are able to take their own decisions on the timing of relaxations. Here is a guide to what is still not allowed under the regulations and what might change soon. Also referred to as "wet bars" or drink-only pubs, they have not yet been allowed to open. An indicative date of 10 August had been set for their reopening, but that was then pushed back to 1 September. But on 26 August, the executive announced that it could not give the green light due to "increased transmission" of the virus in Northern Ireland. Private members' clubs are not allowed to open yet either. The executive has now given the sector a new indicative date of 21 September to reopen, but this will need to be ratified closer to the time. Theatres and concert halls have been told they cannot now reopen to audiences. They had been given an indicative date of 1 September to resume business but on 26 August, the Stormont Executive said it could not ratify the move due to the level of Covid-19 in Northern Ireland. Theatre venues and concert halls had been allowed to resume rehearsals with staff from 8 August. Open-air museums reopened on 13 August. No date has been agreed yet to allow nightclubs in Northern Ireland to reopen. Conference halls inside hotels and indoor venues are also still not permitted to operate. Although competitive sport was allowed to resume from 11 July, it was initially conducted behind closed doors. Current guidelines from the executive state that spectators can attend outdoor sporting venues "where the operator can control access and ensure adherence to social distancing". The Irish Cup Final at Windsor Park on 31 July was the first match in the UK since March to be attended by fans, with 500 supporters watching on. The GAA have said in Northern Ireland. Soft play areas Soft play areas were allowed to reopen on Monday 14 September, after an original reopening date of 7 August was pushed back. The executive maintains all of the restrictions lifted so far are also subject to change and that they are kept under constant review. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.