MEPs who had made their mark on the European Parliament added their fingerprints to a canvas before departing Brussels. Elaine Robinson, from Bristol, last year. British MEPs left their roles at 23:00 GMT on Friday, 31 January. Gina Dowding was one of those to add her fingerprint to the artwork. "This is a very sad day but we have to look forward and make the best of what we have. We have to take all the positive communication back to the UK," said the Green MEP for the north west of England. "We have to keep talking about a new beginning and strengthen links; it isn't the end. "It will be different, sometimes difficult and hard, but it is very important to tackle the big issues that are present in our time." Former Lord Mayor of Sheffield Magid Magid, the Green MEP for Yorkshire and Humber, had made an impression when he . He decided to use his knuckles rather than a fingerprint to make his mark on the last day. "I feel weird being asked for my fingerprint. It feels a little inappropriate. This art it has to be real," he said. Northern Irish politician Naomi Long is Minister of Justice in the Northern Ireland Executive and has been leader of the Alliance Party since 2016. "This is an historic day for Britain. "I guess for me it's important to reinforce and underline the idea we are all together, and to look forward as Justice Minister," she said. Didier Reynders, a Belgian politician and a member of the Mouvement Reformateur, currently serves as European Commissioner for Justice. Adding his thumbprint he said: "I feel very sad - it would have been better for the UK to remain." Former Conservative MP, turned Brexit Party MEP, Ann Widdecombe was also involved in the creation of the artwork. "This is an historic day for for Britain," said Miss Widdecombe, who left the European parliament for the final time on Friday . The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.