Under , people have been asked to work at home wherever feasible, and employers have been told to to make this happen. But the Health and Safety Executive where it was claimed bosses were ignoring the rules. The rules for England state that "you may only leave your home for work if you cannot reasonably work from home". includes healthcare professionals, teachers, childcare providers, transport workers, people who work in construction or manufacturing, funeral directors, and essential retail workers. In Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland the rules are essentially the same. Last week in Scotland, it would publish statutory guidance for employers to support people working from home. If you are because you have coronavirus symptoms or have been in contact with someone who has tested positive, or , you must not go into your workplace. For workplaces that remain open in England, employers must "carry out an appropriate Covid-19 risk assessment" to develop a "specific" strategy to stop the virus's spread. In England, including: In addition, all retail staff and customers unless they are exempt. There is more for a number of different industries including construction, hospitality and manufacturing. If employees are unhappy, and feel their employer has not addressed their concerns, they can contact their local authority or the which can force firms to take action. If your job involves working in other people's homes - for example, as a nanny, cleaner or tradesperson - you can do so, but should take as many precautions as you can. There is similar guidance for employers across a range of sectors in , and Under England and Scotland's new measures, people who are clinically "extremely vulnerable" should now shield once more and will be contacted by letter. should not go into work, even if they cannot work from home. If you can't work from home, you can ask your boss . If that is not an option, you might be able to claim statutory sick pay using your shielding letter as evidence you can't go to work. If you are extremely vulnerable, for example if you are on immunosuppressant drugs, but live with people who are not, they can continue to go into work if they can't work at home. There is further guidance for vulnerable employees in , and Schools have until the middle of February while Northern Ireland students will have an . If employees cannot work "due to caring responsibilities resulting from coronavirus", including needing to provide childcare, that you can ask to be put on furlough. However, employers do not have to agree to put you on furlough. Some organisations may let employees take time off to look after their children, either as annual leave, or unpaid . You may also be able to arrange to work part time, or change your working pattern. The Chartered Institute for Personnel and Development, which represents HR professionals, told the BBC that there is no one-size-fits-all answer. It will depend on a range of factors, including the individual and their circumstances, the type of work in question and the work environment. The organisation's head of public policy Ben Willmott said: "Employers have a duty of care to all their staff and [must] treat people reasonably and fairly, so will need to consult with individuals and be as flexible as possible when dealing with any concerns people will have over attending the workplace." But bosses could be breaking the law if they demand you return to your workplace after you've told them you're shielding. If you decide not to go to work, you could ask your doctor for a fit note to say you can't work and claim sick pay from your employer, or check if you can get statutory sick pay. The government is advising those who need to travel to work to walk or cycle if possible. People who do use public transport are advised to follow the government's which include planning ahead to avoid busy times of day to allow for social distancing. Commuters must wear a face covering (worn over both the mouth and the nose) while on trains, buses and at stations, unless they are exempt. People using taxis or private hire vehicles, including ride-hailing apps, must also wear a face covering at all times. Travellers are also advised to wash and sanitise their hands at the beginning and end of every journey. Those experiencing Covid symptoms, people living with somebody who is experiencing Covid symptoms and anyone who has been told to self-isolate must not travel. Fines for breaching the rules range between PS1,000 and PS6,400 for repeat offenders in England. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.