Ten charities will receive grants, including Hospice UK which will offer individual grief trauma counselling to all front-line staff. Catherine said the coronavirus pandemic "will have a lasting impact" on emergency responders' mental health. The money will also help provide mental health support to schools. The charity, the Royal Foundation, was initially set up in 2009 by Prince William and Prince Harry, and has focused on causes close to the princes' hearts, including the armed forces, conservation and mental health. Catherine joined the charity after she became Duchess of Cambridge in 2011 and Meghan joined shortly before she and Harry were married in May 2018. Last year, to forge their own charity. During the coronavirus lockdown, the duke and duchess to look after people's mental health. The PS1.8m "Covid-19 Response Fund" will include grants to 10 charities: Mind, Hospice UK, the Ambulance Staff Charity, Campaign Against Living Miserably, Best Beginnings, The Anna Freud Centre, Place2Be, Shout 85258, The Mix, YoungMinds. The ways the money will be used include: "Over recent months we have all been in awe of the incredible work that frontline staff and emergency responders have been doing in response to Covid-19, but we know that for many of them, their families, and for thousands of others across the UK, the pandemic will have a lasting impact on their mental health," said Catherine earlier this week, during a visit to speak to front-line workers and mental health counsellors. William told them: "It's great to hear how The Royal Foundation is supporting you and many others to build resilience and give you the networks you need through its Covid-19 Response Fund, which will help ten leading charities continue their crucial work." In May, during the lockdown, William as "heroes" during the coronavirus pandemic. He said the praise could deter workers from seeking support as they feel pressure to appear "strong". In the couple said the lockdown is "stressful" for many people. Psychiatrists of a "tsunami" of mental illness from problems stored up during lockdown. They were particularly concerned that children and older adults are not getting the support they need because of school closures, self-isolation and fear of hospitals. "We are already seeing the devastating impact of Covid-19 on mental health, with more people in crisis," said Prof Wendy Burn, president of the Royal College of Psychiatrists, at the end of May. If you need support or help - you can also find resources on the . The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.