SDLP leader - overturning her 169-vote majority. Maeve McLaughlin, an MLA for Foyle from 2012 to 2016, said the result was an "awful slap". She said the party had to examine its policy and wider strategy in the seat. "It's a time for tough conversations and I do believe that includes all of the key issues, all of the key personnel and all of the key policy directions locally." Sinn Fein won the House of Commons seat of Foyle for the first time in 2017, ending the SDLP's 34-year grip on the constituency. But Mr Eastwood's majority on 12 December was the largest ever secured in Foyle. Much of the debate in the lead-up to the poll centred around abstentionism - Sinn Fein's longstanding policy of not taking seats at Westminster if elected. SDLP representatives take their seats in the House of Commons, and Mr Eastwood argued it was better for Londonderry to have its voice heard in Parliament in this way. Ms McLaughlin acknowledged this had been an issue for some voters, and also identified the suspension of devolved government at Stormont as something people had delivered a verdict on. The institutions collapsed in January 2017 after Sinn Fein and the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) split amid a bitter row. "Cleary abstentionism was an issue for some people, but it equally is not an issue for many, many republicans," she said. "But I do think that things like Stormont delivery were clearly on people's minds." She added there was "no appetite" for a change in the party's abstentionist policy. "In any walk of life when we see a continual drip feed of the polls against the party locally, that's not translated across the rest of the north, then we need to put everything on the table, and be open and honest about that,"  Ms McLaughlin added. "If you were running a business it would be no different." She said the party could "turn this around" if the processes were "overhauled, reviewed and acted on." Ms McLaughlin was co-opted into the Northern Ireland Assembly in June 2012 to replace Martina Anderson, but lost her seat in the assembly election of May 2016. Meanwhile, Mr Eastwood, who is among 140 MPs entering Westminster for the first time, said the election had sent a clear message to Sinn Fein and the DUP. "They will have to listen and that a lot of these principled positions will disappear and we will be back in Stormont very, very soon," he said. The SDLP leader described Prime Minister Boris Johnson's plans to rule out an extension to the post-Brexit transition period as "seriously reckless." He said a no-deal exit from the EU was "something we must do everything we can to avoid." Mr Eastwood said "the SDLP will do what the SDLP thinks is right for people" in Northern Ireland. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.