"I think every part of life has probably got a bit of fat that needs trimming, a bit of dead wood," . "It's awful that the culture sector has been decimated, but I think some things needed to go." His comments attracted ire from some in the arts, but others backed him up. He continued: "Too often, the audience for culture is just the people making it - theatres with whole audiences of actors, or exhibitions only put on to impress other curators. "With Covid, it's been like turning a computer off and on again, and seeing which files reappear. Some of them we don't really give a damn about. What's interesting is what might not re-emerge." On Tuesday, following the attention his comments attracted, he wrote on Twitter that they had been "taken out of context". My comments in an interview have been taken out of context. At this terrible time for the arts I'd like to clarify that I was CERTAINLY not referring to the loss of people's jobs and opportunities in the arts, or to art galleries having to close due to the virus. /1 "At this terrible time for the arts I'd like to clarify that I was CERTAINLY not referring to the loss of people's jobs and opportunities in the arts, or to art galleries having to close due to the virus," he said. "I hope my hard work in support of the arts has shown how much I believe art is for us all and brings joy to amateurs and professionals alike. In times of hardship we need the arts more than ever." Perry, who won the Turner Prize in 2003, had a TV hit during the spring lockdown with Grayson's Art Club on Channel 4. , the arts, entertainment and recreation industry had a lower percentage of businesses trading in late September and early October than any other, and the highest proportion of staff - 28% - on furlough. Venues like the National Theatre, Southbank Centre and Tate galleries have already announced hundreds of job cuts, and English theatres, galleries and museums will close their doors again this week for the new month-long lockdown. A group called Radical RA, which is opposing around 150 proposed cuts at the Royal Academy of Arts in London, . Singer and actor Marcus Reeves tweeted: "Pre-Covid, most of the actors I know didn't have the money to go to theatre, many of the musicians I know didn't have the money to go to gigs..." and many artists I know didn't have the money to make work let alone fork out money to see exhibitions. Your current exhibition at Holburne Museum charges PS12.50 just to view it online. Maybe if we stop paying you for your art, you'll understand and stop being so flippant? Sarah McCrory, director of Goldsmiths Centre of Contemporary Art, : "Grayson's work often pokes fun at the liberal elite that buy it, but perhaps he's just coming full circle as he's joined their ranks. His timing is disgraceful... I'm not sure why he's so out of touch and unempathetic." But others felt Perry had a point. Actor Samuel West, chair of the National Campaign for the Arts, which this summer , tweeted that the interview "seems quite reasonable". Here's that article, so we can all actually *read* it before getting outraged at a clickbait headline from the paywalled Telegraph. Seems quite reasonable. Thanks to for posting Theatre and film director Kerry Kyriacos Michael wrote: "Grayson Perry is correct." In the interview, Perry also said the pandemic had focused minds on social and racial inequality. "It's put a lens on everything - zapping the contrast on all the injustices in society," he said. "The poor suffer more, the non-whites suffer more... It's a ripe moment for social revolution. When everything's up in the air, it means that the pieces have a chance to fall down in a very different pattern." An exhibition of works from Grayson's Art Club was due to open at Manchester Art Gallery on 25 November, but will now be postponed due to the latest lockdown. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.