The Met Office has warned icy stretches are likely to form Andy Heath had said it was as the weather could lead to ice blocking power to the engines. The lines have been cleared and services have resumed, Merseyrail said. "We are currently working towards reintroducing passenger services on a line-by-line basis this morning with the aim of running our timetabled service from approximately midday," a Merseyrail spokeswoman said. Mr Heath said: "Through previous experiences when... we incur a combination of snow, sleet or rainfall on our electrified third rail... this can result in a new layer of ice which electricity cannot pass through and trains are unable to operate." The network-wide cancellations prompted some anger and confusion, with many rail users saying there had been little or no snow. One said: "What do they do in Switzerland, Austria, Germany, Russia when the snow comes? In my experience they just keep running. The snow isn't even heavy and they want to close down the network." No one will ever convince drivers to 'use the car less' when this much snow cancels all the Merseyrail trains for the entire day. Been using merseyrail 4 many winters & you've always run a service UNTIL the conditions forced u 2 stop. Whats the rationale 4 reversing your approach this time? Prep as usual, run as scheduled, & if the conditions worsen, then stop. Uber to then...can I bill you? The operator deployed specialised trains earlier today to lay anti-ice before safety test runs. It said test trains "did become stuck" and that would have led to an "extremely high number of cancellations on the network throughout the morning". Steve Rotheram, mayor of Liverpool City Region, said: "My understanding is that Network Rail issued a restriction of use order meaning services could not run." He added that he would contact Network Rail "to understand why they made their decision and find out how we can stop this happening again in the future". Phil James, Network Rail's north-west route director, apologised for the disruption, adding that, following weather forecasts, "Network Rail and Merseyrail therefore took the tough decision together to suspend all services so de-icing trains could clear tracks. "Empty test trains were sent out on to the network which did lose power on icy rails. Our teams de-iced those sections of track so a reliable service could be provided for passengers by lunchtime." Merseyrail apologised and said: "We had hoped that this advance notice would give passengers enough time to make alternative travel arrangements." The rail operator did not put replacement buses in operation, though rail season tickets were accepted by Arriva, Stagecoach and Mersey Ferries services. Resumed services may be delayed and rail users were advised to check travel information before making journeys. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.