While primary and secondary schools are closed to most pupils, the BBC is broadcasting lessons and programmes on BBC Two and CBBC - as well as on iPlayer, with extra content online. The curriculum-based TV programmes will run alongside , which will continue to provide online learning at home for pupils in Years 1 to 9, and those studying for GCSEs and Nationals. On TV, there will be three hours of primary school programming on CBBC, and two hours for secondary pupils on BBC Two. During the first lockdown last spring, content was available on iPlayer, Red Button services and online, but not on regular television channels. The move to TV comes amid concerns many families are struggling to provide the technology and internet connections for their children to take part in online learning. Tim Davie, BBC director general, says ensuring children across the UK have the opportunity to continue to follow the core parts of the school curriculum has been a key priority for the corporation. "Education is absolutely vital - the BBC is here to play its part and I'm delighted that we have been able to bring this to audiences so swiftly." There will be both lessons and educational programmes. For , CBBC will show BBC Bitesize Daily as well as popular shows such as Our School, Celebrity Supply Teacher, Horrible Histories, Art Ninja and Operation Ouch. The on TV will feature a different subject each day across the week, including maths, English, science and French. There will be teaching for five-to-seven year-olds, seven-to-nine year-olds and those aged nine-to-11. The Celebrity Supply Teacher programme at 10:05 will feature the likes of footballer Marcus Rashford on PE and singer Geri Horner's English tips. BBC Two will cater for , with new content to support the curriculum, including drama adaptations, and science, history and factual titles. Science for 11-14 year-olds is the focus of the first week's Bitesize Daily lesson programmes at 13:00, followed each day by an episode of The Planets presented by Prof Brian Cox. - learning resources for children of all ages can be found on the -  programming for primary school pupils will be on CBBC between 09:00 and 12.00 every weekday. Programmes for secondary school pupils will be on BBC Two, between 13:00 and 15:00. - the Bitesize Daily lessons will also be shown on the Red Button service on TV. - all episodes will be available on catch-up, via For primary and secondary pupils in , there will be from 10:00, every weekday for about two hours. For children studying in , there is bilingual support on the with activities to support home learning. Go to the "change language" button and select the Welsh language to access it. Pupils in can go to the "Learning from home" section of the to find more information to help their studies. Customers using BT Mobile, EE, and Plusnet Mobile will be able to use BBC Bitesize content from the end of January . More mobile companies are also expected to make such content free to use. The BBC Bitesize social media channels will be there to help - with and accounts focusing on parents and teachers, including articles on supporting children's learning from home. This is where you can find the And the Bitesize and platforms are there for teenage students - with explainers and lighter relief, such as memes. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.