Forces in Wales have released examples of just some of the reasons people have given for supposed "essential" travel. Police said most people were following advice to stay home. However they said a "a small minority had selfishly put others at risk" and had been fined. It is almost five weeks since strict rules were announced to limit the spread of coronavirus which Police say the message is now so clear that individuals who are outside for reasons other than those permitted in the guidelines would face "greater enforcement activity", including a fixed penalty notice of PS60. Among the excuses given to Gwent Police officers were: Gwent Deputy Chief Constable Amanda Blakeman said: "We understand this is a difficult time for all people. "The vast majority of our communities are adhering to the guidance and we are grateful for the real difference they are making. "A small minority are continuing to go against these guidelines." Wales' three national parks are all closed however North Wales police said it was still turning away day-trippers, walkers and off-road bikers from Snowdonia. Among the motorists stopped across north Wales, they had: North Wales Assistant Chief Constable Nigel Harrison said: "The main enforcement we are using is the power to direct people home to their home address and where required we will report people so that fixed penalty notices (FPNs) can be issued. "As a whole our communities recognise the importance of sticking to government direction so we can all help save lives." Coastguard and officers called to rescue 4[?] people who got stranded at Sully Island,   7[?] people at a house party in  Youths playing basketball outside a leisure centre in  A home gym being used by neighbours in  Two men and two women from Cardiff were fined after they on a Rhondda mountain. South Wales Police said it had also been called to: Labour MP for Cardiff South and Penarth Stephen Doughty blasted "totally irresponsible" people for getting stranded on Sully Island in the Vale of Glamorgan during the lockdown. He was responding to Penarth Coastguard after it tweeted it had been called out to assist five times in as many weeks.  22/4 16:59 Tasked person cut off Sully Island. transported casualty to mainland, safety advice given by our team. Please help us & the this is the 5th call out to Sully Island since lockdown [?] Help the  Stay home [?] Save lives West and mid Wales usually see a large number of visitors to tourist attractions such as the Pembrokeshire Coast and Brecon Beacons national parks and have a large number of holiday homes and second properties. Dyfed-Powys Police has issued between 27 March and 14 April. However it had also seen a 35% reduction in crime compared with the same period the previous year. Among the reasons given to officers were: Chief Constable Mark Collins said: "Annually we welcome more than 10 million people to our area, and while together with our partners we have said for now, our counties are closed, some people haven't listened to this and have continued to put communities and the NHS at risk." The force is also among those to have raised concerns that during lockdown. Officers said some drivers were taking advantage of the quiet roads and using them as "racing tracks". Sadly we continue to see people taking advantage of the quiet roads by driving at speed. The speed limit has not changed. At all. Driver caught on the A499, Trefor. 102mph!! Ticket issued. Respect the speed limit. Think of the consequences.   The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.