The PS60m iOPS system was brought in to replace three systems which were critical to how the force functions. But inspectors found it caused a delay in answering 999 calls, "serious" backlogs in dealing with abuse cases and a loss of staff confidence. The chief constable said the report showed they were making improvements. Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary (HMICFRS) was asked to review the recovery plan put in place by GMP to resolve the difficulties and backlogs created by the implementation of iOPS. It was installed in July 2019, after being delayed by 16 months due to several technical problems which were "worse than anticipated" during the transition leading to "reduced force performance". during a system upgrade at the start of February. said staff were "motivated to do a good job with a real desire to keep people safe" but "remain frustrated" with a system that does not always return "accurate results". It said training issues meant staff had "very little confidence" in a system they did not trust. It also found a backlog of cases including domestic abuse and child protection cases. This meant referrals to Greater Manchester Victims' Services were down by 87%, referrals for high-risk domestic abuse victims reduced by half and in one area, only 28% of child protection incidents were referred to children's social care between 12 and 31 July. Chief Constable Ian Hopkins told BBC Radio Manchester he asked for the independent review in August 2019 in a bid to be "transparent". He said the old system was over 30 years old and "in danger of completely failing". But the launch of iOPS in July last year caused "a real slowdown" of the system leading to "significant backlog". He said non-immediate issues were being reviewed to check that there was no residual risk but insisted "the immediate stuff was dealt with as it should have been". Mr Hopkins also admitted iOPS should have been delayed further until staff had been trained properly. "There was never an ideal time to go live but because of the loss of confidence around the training I would revisit that," he added. "I spent days on the front line, listening to my colleagues, and seeing and feeling their frustration because they all want to do a good job but they felt hindered." HM Inspector of Constabulary Phil Gormley said: "It is clear some of the difficulties encountered were unavoidable. "However, it is similarly clear there are significant lessons for the future." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.