Under the plans, the cost of alcohol would be determined by a formula based on its strength and volume. The proposal depends on the result of a against similar plans by the Scottish Government. It is one of five laws included in Welsh ministers' legislative programme for the year ahead. The minimum pricing plans are expected to be policed by local councils, if implemented. The Welsh Government said it is confident that the legislation would be within the powers of the assembly. Plans to regulate the price of alcohol in Wales were in July 2015 but were put on hold because of the assembly election in 2016 and a decision by judges in Scotland to refer the government in Edinburgh's alcohol cost plans to the Supreme Court. A spokesman for UKIP in the assembly said the plan was "another example of nanny-statism" and accused the Welsh Government of invading people's lives by increasing the cost of one of their favourite activities. "The Welsh Government opts for price controls which hit the poorest and fail to tackle the underlying social issues which create alcoholism and overconsumption," he said. The Scotch Whisky Association's appeal against a minimum price in Scotland is expected to be heard by Britain's highest court next month. Research suggested a charge of 50p per unit in Wales would save nearly PS900m over 20 years by cutting crime and illness, with 50 fewer deaths a year. But when the Welsh Government first introduced its plans, a drinks industry spokesman said they would "ramp up" prices while "doing nothing" to tackle alcohol harm. Other proposals in the Welsh Government's legislative programme include scrapping letting agents' fees, which have already been banned in Scotland, while the UK government has consulted on doing the same in England. Over the next 12 months, the Welsh Government will also legislate to introduce its offer of 30 hours of free childcare for 48 weeks of the year for working parents of three to four-year-olds. Six councils will from September 2017 before a wider roll-out at a later date. Ministers also intend to put on the statute book and consult on introducing a next year. The Welsh Government proposes the following assembly bills for the next 12 months: First Minister Carwyn Jones has also said ministers could introduce a so-called Continuity Bill - proposed by Plaid Cymru AM Steffan Lewis as a measure to enshrine in Welsh law - if the UK government does not respect the devolution settlement post-Brexit. Mr Jones said: "The bills we intend to introduce during the second year of this assembly will support our efforts to build a Wales that is healthy and active, prosperous and secure, ambitious and learning and united and connected." "As I have repeatedly made clear, the UK government must respect the devolution settlement," he added. "If this does not happen, we will consider other options, such as a Continuity Bill, to protect Wales' interests." Plaid leader Leanne Wood said: "Minimum pricing and banning letting agents fees are Plaid policies which the Labour government has been very slow to act upon. "I am also very concerned that it will take in effect almost an entire assembly term to get a new system of childcare up and running." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.