Leon Street, 48, was fatally wounded in Neasden Road North, Neasden, Ten minutes before, a 47-year-old man was attacked nearby by a man who fled the scene, while another male was stabbed today in Neasden Road North. Police believe the first two attacks were "linked", while inquiries into the latest stabbing are "ongoing". Mr Street, who was a father and step-grandfather, lived in Neasden Road North along with his fiancee. The Met Police said he was attacked close to his home by "a lone male" who had also stabbed another man in nearby Neasden Lane on the same day about 10 minutes earlier. Another man, aged in his 30s, was found stabbed in Neasden Lane North this morning. He was taken to hospital by paramedics. Police said they were still waiting for an update on his condition. The force added that "officers retain an open mind as to the motive for this incident but are aware of the proximity to two stabbings on 11 January". Police patrols have already been increased in the area. Police are on scene in Lane North after a man was stabbed at approx 09:50hrs this morning - he has been taken to hospital. Enquiries into the circumstances inc whether there is a link to incidents on 11Jan remain ongoing. A post-mortem examination gave Mr Street's cause of death as stab injuries to the chest. Two men who were previously arrested over the killing were both released without further action. One of those was the 47-year-old man who was attacked in Neasden Lane. He required hospital treatment, but has since been discharged. Speaking about the first two attacks, Det Ch Insp Tom Williams said he believed the suspect "lives locally" and appealed for those based in the area to contact police. "In particular, I want to hear from anyone who saw a man running in the Neasden Lane North area between 21:00 and 22:00, and indeed from anyone who has seen a man hanging around the area in recent weeks," he said. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.