Muslims are divided into two major groups, Sunnis and Shias. There are various sub-sects within each. All Shias believe in the Imamat - or spiritual leadership - of Ali, Prophet Muhammad's son-in-law and fourth Caliph. After him, different sects follow different descendants of Ali as their Imam. Ismailis revere a number of Imams including Imam Ismail who died in 765 AD. Ismailis interpret the Koran symbolically and allegorically and believe in a religious hierarchy. In Pakistan, the largest Shia group, the Asna-e-Ashari, has been the main target of armed Sunni extremists. Ismailis, Bohras and other smaller Shia sects, though occasional targets, have largely stayed unhurt, because of their smaller populations, relative affluence and their tendency to live in close-knit community. They say they have a population of about 15 million people worldwide, including 500,000 in Pakistan. There are also large populations in India, Afghanistan and Africa. In Pakistan, the Ismaili urban population is mostly concentrated in Karachi. But they have a presence in most major cities in Sindh, Punjab and parts of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. They are mostly rich businessmen from the Gujrati-speaking belt of India, or small traders and office workers from Sindh. They tend to live close to their mosques, often apart from other communities. This indicates a feeling of insecurity which pervades minorities everywhere in Pakistan. He is Prince Karim Aga Khan - or His Highness Prince Karim Aga Khan IV to give him his full title. He is the 49th hereditary Imam of the Ismaili Muslims and they trace his lineage directly to the Prophet Muhammad. He succeeded his grandfather in 1957 at the age of 20. He lives in France, has a British passport, graduated from Harvard University and is among the top 15 of the world's wealthiest royals, according to , with an estimated wealth of $1bn (PS640m) in 2008. He does. He is a leading owner and breeder of race horses in France, Ireland and the UK. He bred , once the most famous, and most valuable racehorse in the world. Indeed. describes the Aga Khan as a "paradox". It writes: "The Pope of his flock, he also possesses fabled wealth and inhabits a world of marvellous chateaux, yachts, jets, and Thoroughbred horses. To be sure, few persons bridge so many divides - between the spiritual and the material; East and West; Muslim and Christian - as gracefully as he does." The Institute of Ismaili Studies says he continues a tradition of "strict political neutrality" but he is often present at conferences of world leaders when Central Asia is on the agenda. He is the founder of the Aga Khan Foundation, a charity, and a business magnate. He gives his name to bodies including a university in Karachi, and the Aga Khan Program for Islamic Architecture at Harvard University and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The Aga Khan Trust for Culture was key to the restoration of the site in Delhi. There is an annual Aga Khan Award for Architecture. And he founded the Nation Media Group, which has become the largest independent media organisation in east and central Africa. After the Karachi attack he issued a statement saying the Ismailis were a "peaceful global community living in harmony with other religious and ethnic groups in many countries across the world, including in the Muslim world". The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.