Nadine Dorries said this included "interns on exchange programmes", triggering a backlash on Twitter. In response, she said she was a backbench MP who did not have access to government documents. The Mid Bedfordshire MP had been defending Conservative First Secretary of State Damian Green. A Cabinet Office inquiry is examining claims pornography was found on a computer in Mr Green's Parliamentary office. He denies watching or downloading pornography on his computer. Ms Dorries was questioning a retired police officer's claim that Mr Green must have been responsible for material found on his computer. My staff log onto my computer on my desk with my login everyday. Including interns on exchange programmes. For the officer on just now to claim that the computer on Greens desk was accessed and therefore it was Green is utterly preposterous !! Here are the data protection rules for HofC staff - 5.8 You MUST NOT: - share your password. But that's staff not MPs... She defended herself in subsequent tweets, saying her team were responding to hundreds of emails every day. All my staff have my login details. A frequent shout when I manage to sit at my desk myself is, 'what is the password?' A fellow MP, Nick Boles, tweeted that he shared his password with his staff for the same reasons. Ms Dorries later tweeted that she was "flattered" by people thinking she would have access to "government docs", adding: "Sorry to disappoint!" Flattered by number of people on here who think I'm part of the Government and have access to government docs  I'm a back bench MP - 2 Westminster based computers in a shared office. On my computer, there is a shared email account. That's it. Nothing else. Sorry to disappoint! Jim Killock, of the Open Rights campaign group, said: "On the face of it, Nadine Dorries is admitting to breaching basic data protection laws, making sure her constituents' emails and correspondence is kept confidential and secure. She should not be sharing her log-in with interns. "More worryingly, it appears this practice of MPs sharing their log-ins may be rather widespread. If so, we need to know." He urged MPs' staff and former staff to get in touch with his campaign "if they have knowledge about insecure data practices in MPs' offices". Source: The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.