Here we answer some of the questions we have received from readers about Prince Harry and Meghan's possible plans. The duke and duchess have said they do not have any special tax privileges, so it is likely the usual rules apply. It's not clear how much time Prince Harry and Meghan intend to spend in Canada. But if they seek permanent residency there, or they spend 183 days in a tax year in the country, then Canada will consider them resident for tax purposes. Even if they spend less time abroad - perhaps so Meghan can - they will be expected to pay tax on any income they earn from working in Canada. The Queen is Canada's head of state. Recent polls have found Canadians leaning towards severing ties with the monarchy but some individual royals are still seen very favourably. A poll of 1,000 people last year by Research Co suggested . Republican sentiment is more common in French-speaking Quebec, where 53% said they wanted a republic. But Prince Harry himself has a 70% favourability rating in Canada, while for Meghan it is 60%. Prince Harry and Meghan have said they will no longer use their HRH titles. From this spring, they will become known as Harry, Duke of Sussex, and Meghan, Duchess of Sussex. The Queen made Prince Harry Duke of Sussex, Earl of Dumbarton and Baron Kilkeel on his wedding day, in May 2018. Meghan became the Duchess of Sussex. Prince Harry will remain a prince, having been born one. Only the monarch could restore any of their other titles. Prince Harry and Meghan applied in June 2019 to in the UK, for items including books, clothing, charitable fundraising, education and social-care services. Their application was published in December 2019. If no-one objects, the trademark could be registered as early as February 2020. They are also reportedly seeking to register the brand as a global trademark covering a wide range of goods and services including clothing, stationery and "emotional support" groups. The couple spent Christmas in Canada and Meghan recently returned to the country with her eight-month-old son, Archie. As a Briton, the prince is entitled to spend in Canada - anything longer than that and he would have to apply for a visa. As an American citizen, the same rules apply for his wife. . Use this form to ask your question: If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the to submit your question or send them via email to . Please include your name, age and location with any question you send in. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.