The is for some not eligible for the localised restrictions scheme. The scheme is divided in two; Part A and Part B. Part A of the scheme opened for applications last Wednesday while the remainder of the fund is yet to open. Northern Ireland has been subject to tighter restrictions since 16 October, which has seen close contact services told to stop trading and the hospitality sector only able to offer takeaway or delivery. Part A is targeted at businesses required to close or cease trading as a result of current restrictions and are not eligible for . This includes businesses that deliver their product or service on a mobile basis or operate from their home, like mobile hairdressers or driving instructors. Successful applicants are eligible for a grant payment of PS600 per week. The Department for the Economy scheme will also see financial support provided to businesses in the direct supply chain, known as Part B. Firms must show they have been significantly impacted by restrictions. Businesses which pay rates will receive a grant based on their net annual value. Those which do not pay rates could get PS300 a week. A spokesperson for the department said Part B will open as soon as possible. "The department is working on this as a matter of priority. Further guidance and details of how to apply will be made available on the nibusinessinfo website in due course." When this fund was announced, Economy Minister Diane Dodds said she had instructed officials to bring forward a tourism and hospitality scheme to address issues associated with current restrictions and a scheme to support those recently self-employed. A spokesperson for the Department for the Economy told BBC News NI: "These schemes remain under active development. Further details will be announced in due course." Meanwhile, it has emerged the government has refused to guarantee that the furlough scheme will be extended in Northern Ireland if it or the other devolved nations undergo further spells of lockdown. Chancellor Rishi Sunak announced the furlough scheme - which pays 80% of affected workers' wages - would be extended until the English lockdown is due to end, on 2 December. Chief Secretary to the Treasury Steve Barclay told the House of Commons the government would support all parts of the UK. However, when responding to questions from several MPs, he refused to say if there would be regional furlough support beyond 2 December. "Furlough has always been a UK-wide scheme and as the Prime Minister said, the government will always be there to provide support to all parts of the United Kingdom," he said. The minister said Northern Ireland is to benefit from the Treasury's response to the latest national lockdown with a financial "uplift". Mr Barclay told the Commons that details would be announced this week. Outlining the government's measures, he added: "We will also uplift the Barnett guarantee this week, to give Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland further certainty over their upfront funding. "These measures build on the government's economic package, which now totals over PS200 billion." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.