Jim Roddy, manager of Derry's City Centre Initiative, said the sector "is being driven into the ground". If businesses were told to close they would be entitled to financial support. But while they are allowed to remain open there is no such help. Mr Roddy called for Stormont to approve financial support for the sector and said without intervention jobs and businesses would be lost. Speaking on , Mr Roddy said lockdown restrictions in the Derry City and Strabane District Council area - - had reduced footfall so much that businesses allowed to remain open could not trade. Pubs and restaurants can only open for takeaway, while , but non-essential retailers can stay open. "The indirect result of restrictions being placed on all these other sectors is driving city centre retail into the ground," Mr Roddy said. "The net result of that is that people will lose their jobs, these shops will shut up." With a hinterland that straddles the Irish border, restrictions now further compound the situation in Derry, he said. The state's new restrictions mean people cannot travel more than 5km from home, drastically reducing the number of shoppers who can travel into Derry from neighbouring County Donegal. "We are facing a major, major crisis. I do not say that lightly," Mr Roddy said. "I support our executive ministers in all that they do to try to look after the health and wellbeing of our citizens. But in this instance, our city centre is facing a real crisis". Retailers, he said, want to know "how are we meant to stay open in a ghost town?". Colm Shannon, chief executive of Newry Chamber of Commerce said he could "understand and sympathise with traders in Derry". Like Derry, many of those who shop in Newry, County Down, come from across the border. Since restrictions came into force there last weekend, the city has "been experiencing a significant decline in footfall from across the border," Mr Shannon said. Instead of closing down retail however, Mr Shannon said Stormont "must revisit its strategy and look at how to open up the economy". Glyn Roberts of Retail NI said he could "totally understand" Mr Roddy's position due to the pressures being faced by retailers in the north west. "It is not just a problem specific to Derry," he said. "We have consistently said the closure of hospitality would be a hammer blow to the retail sector in terms of significantly reducing footfall. This is a terrible time for retailers and for their staff. "We will wait to see what the executive produce later." Economy Minister Diane Dodds is due for traders hit by the Covid-19 restrictions later on Thursday. Mr Roddy said that must include support for retailers. "We are in a zone where all businesses have not been paced on restrictions and some businesses cant get special grant aid at this time," he said. "Those businesses are really facing the wall and something needs to be done to help them now." Meanwhile work has started on a number of outdoor shelters at Altnagelvin Hospital in Derry for people waiting to be assessed for Covid-19 symptoms. It is part of an assessment process now in place at the hospital's emergency department (ED). All patients will be risk assessed before entering the department, the Western Trust said. It said occasionally patients "may have to wait for brief periods outside the building". "We are in the process of constructing outdoor sheltered areas for patients and the construction of these shelters is already in process," a trust spokeswoman said. "All patients, once risk assessed for Covid symptoms are directed to one of two waiting areas and triaged as per normal practice". The trust said the assessment process ensure patient and staff safety and that patients "are directed to the appropriate area for clinical assessment". The Derry City and Strabane District remains Northern Ireland's highest infection rate, with 669 cases per 100,000 people, according to The Western Trust is currently in the "level red" stage of its Covid surge plan. Fourteen people have had in the Western Health Trust this week due to the surge in Covid-19 patients. Orthopaedic inpatient services have also been suspended at Altnagelvin and visiting only permitted for The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.