The jab just at the start of the year. There are hopes hundreds of thousands of us will be immunised with this, or the vaccine created by Pfizer-BioNTech, in the next few months. But with there already having been long queues at vaccination centres, when can you expect to get the call to get the jab, and what does it mean for how we live our lives? Last Monday was described as a "momentous day" in the fight against Covid-19 as the rollout of the second vaccine - Oxford-AstraZeneca - began in Wales. A total of 327,000 doses - 280,000 of the - and 47,000 doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca jab - have now been delivered to the Welsh NHS. The latest figures show 86,000 doses had been administered in total by 22:00 GMT on Sunday. There has been criticism that the It's the question on everyone's lips... when will I get the call to go and get one of the vaccines? For most of us, when we will receive either of the jabs depends on how high risk we are of becoming severely ill if we contract coronavirus. The Welsh Government hopes that by spring all over-50s and everyone who is at the greatest risk from Covid will have been offered a jab, . "This is the biggest vaccination programme Wales has ever seen and in total, 2.5m adults could be offered the vaccine between May and September," said Welsh Government. Those classed as highest risk will get the jab first - so the care home residents, elderly, and those with classed as "clinically vulnerable" will be immunised during the first phase of the rollout, some 1.5m people. A priority list has been drawn up by officials, with care home residents and staff - about 40,250 - first in line for immunisation. Then about 326,000 people over the age of 80, and those who work as frontline NHS and social care workers, are next in line. Followed by those over 70 or classed as clinically extremely vulnerable - those who are shielding. The hope is all of these people will have had their first jab by the end of February. People will then be given it depending on age and medical conditions. And the hope is that by spring anyone over the age of 50 or who is aged over 16 and has an underlying medical condition which puts them at greater risk of getting severely ill, will have been vaccinated. The underlying medical conditions for this vaccination category are: The , having initially planned to leave 21 days between the Pfizer jabs. The UK's chief medical officers have defended than plan, after criticism from a doctors' union. There are now two Covid-19 vaccinations being rolled out in Wales, the Oxford-AstraZeneca and the Pfizer-BioNTech jab. The Oxford virus is made from a genetically engineered virus which causes the common cold in chimpanzees, and has been altered to make it like coronavirus. After the jab the immune system triggers antibodies to fight it, which the BBC's Laura Foster says means that if the person contracts Covid again they have "exactly what they need to fight it off". Both the Pfizer and Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccines require two doses to provide the best possible protection. The simple answer is no. People are being warned not to use the vaccine as a reason to return to normal, as there is no evidence you cannot catch Covid-19 or spread it once you have had the jab. Officials are urging people to stick to rules, regardless of whether they have had the vaccine. So that means social distancing, wearing masks and continuing with hygiene measures. Also you need two doses to get the maximum protection. The biggest question - how long does immunity last - will take months or potentially years to answer. You will be able to get the Oxford jab - which is easier to store - at GP surgeries and community vaccination centres, and have it administered by district nurses. In the coming weeks, the Welsh Government hopes 35 vaccination centres, with larger and small centres - at least one per county - will be operational in communities across Wales, and will be open seven days a week. Some people may also get their jab administered by an optician or dentist, to speed up the rollout of the vaccine, and there may be the potential to deliver it to pharmacies. In some rural or hard to reach communities people may get their injection in a mobile vaccination centre, and proposals are in place for military medics, retired NHS workers, members of the Red Cross and St John Ambulance to help with the rollout. But, health boards and GP surgeries are urging people not to contact them for information about getting the vaccine after being inundated with calls and messages. You will soon be sent a letter and your GP will contact you to offer you the jab and an appointment. Some areas of Wales have much higher case rates of the virus than others. But those living in hot spot areas will not get the vaccine first, as there is no evidence the jab stops transmission of the virus from person to person. Each health board will be allocated a share of doses depending on how many individuals in their area are classed as the most vulnerable to becoming severely ill from the virus. Children are not currently due to be vaccinated, and the vaccines have not been tested on children. The risk that children will Care home workers and NHS front-line staff are among the first in line to get the vaccines, as the health service responds to the pandemic. But there have been calls for other front-line key workers - who are face to face with the public on a daily basis - to also be prioritised. Currently the priority list does not include other key workers, such as teachers, police officers and firefighters, as well as other non-NHS workers. Teachers and school staff who work with young people who are clinically vulnerable have however been added to the priority list following UK-wide advice. They will have to wait and be immunised depending on what age and risk category they fall into. This is because there is no evidence the vaccines do not stop people catching Covid-19, instead protecting them from the more severe symptoms. No - this vaccine is being rolled out free to people via the NHS. You cannot jump the queue by paying for it, but there should be plenty of vaccine to go round. The UK has ordered 100 million doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine - enough to vaccinate 50 million people. While the exact amount Wales will receive has not yet been disclosed, this would amount to roughly five million doses or enough to vaccinate just below 2.5 million people if it was given as a percentage of population. Those who were pregnant or breastfeeding had been advised not to have the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, due to a lack of information about its effects. But with the new vaccine there has been a relaxation of this, with experts saying it is more a matter of personal choice whether they have the jab. The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) is now advising that those with food allergies can have the vaccine - but not those with allergies to ingredients in the dose. If you do not want the vaccine, BBC Wales understands you will not just get offered it once. There will be chances to change your mind and have the jab in the future. Both vaccines present logistical challenges for the Welsh NHS, such as how they will be distributed and how quickly. With the Pfizer vaccine the main issue has been that it has to be stored at -70c, making it hard to distribute in community and care home settings. While this is not an issue for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, meaning it is easier to rollout, one challenge is that within each vial there are up to 10 doses of the vaccine, which has a short shelf life of about six hours. After the first dose is administered, the second needs to be given within four to 12 weeks. Many front-line NHS and care home workers will now have had their first dose of the Pfizer vaccine, and have been waiting to get their second dose. When the Pfizer jab rollout began, the aim was to give the second dose after three weeks. But based on advice from the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation, the aim now is to give as many vulnerable people some protection from Covid-19, irrespective of the jab they are given. There has been criticism over the delay for the second dose from medical professionals. But experts believe that the longer wait between doses will allow them to give more people the initial dose - believed to provide a higher level of protection - before giving people the second dose, for longer term immunisation. Despite the vaccine news, an end to us all walking around without masks and being able to hug our friends and family normally seems a long way off still. Health Minister Vaughan Gething said he hoped that by Easter most of the population would have received the first dose of the vaccine, but said he did not want to give out "false hope". "By April, if the weather is improving, it will allow us to do more things outside," he said. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.