Both the Borders and Dumfries and Galloway council areas were under level one restrictions before Christmas. However, recent figures showed case rates per 100,000 were exceeded only by those in Inverclyde. NHS Dumfries and Galloway chief executive Jeff Ace said it was a "worrying situation" for the region. show an average of 538.1 and 435.5 positive tests per 100,000 people in Dumfries and Galloway and the Borders respectively over the last seven days. currently sits at 583 positive tests per 100,000 people - the national average is 236.9. There are now 38 people in hospital with recently confirmed Covid in the Borders and 19 in Dumfries and Galloway, although the numbers in intensive care remains below five in both regions. "We know the trajectory of cases means things are almost certain to get worse before they get better," said Mr Ace. "The situation could grow considerably worse, given that these current figures do not account for the further rate of increase we may see resulting from increased social interaction on Christmas Day." He said the relaxation of restrictions in recent weeks had been followed by the identification of a new "even more highly transmissible strain" of the virus. Mr Ace urged the public to "go even further" and not just follow national guidelines but limit interactions as much as possible. Overall rates of the virus that were initially low led to both the Borders and Dumfries and Galloway However, a number of outbreaks saw case numbers rise, and the regions moved into level four restrictions on 26 December along with the rest of mainland Scotland. NHS Borders reported cases at the Borders General Hospital Another cluster was also reported at a fish processing factory in the region. In Dumfries and Galloway, the health board voiced concerns The outbreak centred on the west of the region - including one involving more than 60 staff and residents at a care home in Stranraer - although cases have also been tracked in the Annandale area. First Minister Nicola Sturgeon also said this week that the Borders was one of the health boards giving greatest concern over its hospital capacity. NHS Borders said it now had three dedicated Covid wards open at the Borders General with the capacity to open more if needed. Medical director Dr Lynn McCallum said the increase in cases was "undoubtedly due" in part to the spread of the highly transmissible variant. She added that they expected the impact of rising case numbers to "last for weeks" particularly after household mixing over the festive period. Council leader Shona Haslam described it as a "very serious situation" and urged the public to stop "or at least minimise" contact with other people. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.