The force says it handed out 43 fixed penalty notices to some of those involved - in total, there were 430 issued in December. Officers have also been turning away people who had travelled to Wales from Southampton, Kent and Solihull on New Year's Day. Last week police had to turn back people travelling to Wales from London. Referring to the rule breaches, Supt Claire Evans of South Wales Police said: "The rules are very clear that you must not mix with other households. "Our health partners have been clear that indoor transmission remains one of the greatest risks, so while we will continue to work with our communities to help them understand the rules, we will enforce in those areas where we are seeing blatant or persistent breaches. "House parties, attending gatherings and travelling to exercise are not allowed and if you do any of these things then you are running the risk of being fined." A busy night and across . Assaults, drink drivers and people ignoring the fact we are in the midst of a global health pandemic.  Custody full. working hard to keep people safe, and doing it well. Blwyddyn Newydd Dda pawb. A police patrol issued a fine to a gathering in Ferndale, with other people being spoken to and sent home. Stop checks were conducted on vehicles at Merthyr Mawr in Bridgend in response to Covid breaches, with owners identified from as far away as Gateshead and Middlesex. Chief Constable of South Wales Police Jeremy Vaughan tweeted that there had been "assaults, drink drivers and people ignoring the fact we are in the midst of a global health pandemic". North Wales Police asked people to "please do not travel for exercise". Patrols continue across and we are working closely with our colleagues. Several reported for breaches already today - with some travelling here from as far as Southampton, Kent & Sollihull. Please do not travel for exercise.  Wales has been in a since 20 December. Travelling is only allowed for essential purposes, such as for work and for caring responsibilities. International travel is also not allowed. People are still allowed out of their homes to exercise, for unlimited periods each day, but must maintain social distancing, and not exercise with anyone outside their household. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.