Editorials speculate on what Donald Trump might deliver once the dust of the election campaign has settled. The front page of the French paper Liberation carries the stark headline "American Psycho". The French news website opts for a somewhat wordier headline: "Donald Trump's bet that he will save those left behind by globalisation will probably be more difficult to win than the election". An editorial in France's calls for a "Europe First" policy to be adopted in response to Mr Trump's "America First" policy. The paper says that "the foreign policy of the United States will from now on be guided by the defence of American interests, and nothing else. For Europeans, the only answer is unity." In Russia, the pro-Kremlin tabloid predicts that Mr Trump will get along fine with President Vladimir Putin, as the two men are "mentally very similar: both have a reputation of being some kind of macho". Germany's believes Mr Trump will carry out his threat to overturn President Barack Obama's nuclear deal with Iran. The paper says that the agreement "is hated by both Trump and the Congress. Together, they could actually terminate it." The government-owned Iranian daily may have such a move in mind when it says: "Our country's diplomatic apparatus should closely monitor the new situation so that it can isolate Trump's irrational America and minimise the upcoming potential threats." The reformist Iranian daily conveys its fears over the impact Mr Trump's victory is likely to have on the rest of the world with the cartoon shown below. Indian papers also take a pessimistic view of the likely impact of a Trump presidency. In a piece headlined "Deal with Him", The Indian Express urges the country's leaders to beware as "nationalism, anti-globalism and xenophobia play out as policy in the US and across the world". The Turkish press reaches a similarly gloomy conclusion. The centrist predicts that "From this day forth... such concepts as rights, freedom, human rights, democracy will be put on the back burner... Money, power, discipline, economy, authoritarian administration, banging one's fist on the table will be prioritised... The US will start to be managed like a company." And the centre-right says: "We can already say now that, with such a president, the world will not be a better place to live in... There are a lot of reasons to be scared. Putin in charge of Russia, Trump in charge of America! Like a nightmare." In the Middle East, several Saudi dailies give prominence to the message from King Salman bin Abdulaziz al-Saud who told Trump "we look forward to consolidating our relations and achieving stability" in the region. But Iraqi private Al-Alam newspaper warns of a "decline of US power" in the region. "If the USA wants to regain its prestige, it has to end its alliance with those who breed extremist thought because sectarian regimes can never succeed in leading nations." Israel's centrist Yediot Aharonot, on the other hand, is hedging its bets: "Trump is a total opportunist... This can be very dangerous because opportunists know no bounds; this can succeed because opportunists enjoy a wider space for manoeuvring." The Chinese press is on the whole confident that once he is in the White House, Mr Trump will behave in a more moderate way and row back on some of his campaign promises. The predicts that he will jettison his more "ridiculous" vows, pointing out that "if his goal is to bring jobs back to the US, his first and foremost job is not to be tough on others, but to improve the US economy and industries first." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.