In a , she added she "fantasises" about the show being brought back. "Courteney, Lisa and I talk about it. I fantasise about it. It really was the greatest job I ever had," Aniston said. "I don't know what it would look like today, but you never know. So many shows are being successfully rebooted." (Shows to have been brought back recently include Will & Grace, Gilmore Girls, The X Files, Roseanne and Queer Eye... with .) She pondered whether "Lisa, Courteney, and I could reboot The Golden Girls and spend our last years together on wicker furniture". (She's probably joking about this but we kind of hope she isn't.) Here are eight other things we learned from the interview: Earlier this year, Aniston announced she and Justin Theroux were after two years of marriage. "The misconceptions are 'Jen can't keep a man', and 'Jen refuses to have a baby because she's selfish and committed to her career'," Aniston told the magazine. "Or that I'm sad and heartbroken. First, with all due respect, I'm not heartbroken. And second, those are reckless assumptions. "They don't know what I've been through medically or emotionally." Since leaving Friends, Aniston has gone on to have a successful movie career - arguably the only former star of the series to do so. Her big-screen hits include We're The Millers, Horrible Bosses, The Break-Up and Marley & Me. But the 49-year-old has been followed by headlines along the way, suggesting she has prioritised her career over starting a family. "There is a pressure on women to be mothers, and if they are not, then they're deemed damaged goods," Aniston said. "Maybe my purpose on this planet isn't to procreate. Maybe I have other things I'm supposed to do?" It's not just media stories about motherhood and her love life Aniston has struggled to escape over the years. "For the most part I can sit back and laugh at the ridiculous headlines because they have gotten more and more absurd," she said. Later in the interview, McNearney asks Jen what the biggest misconception is about her, so the actress hits Google. "Oh, look, I'm having a $100,000 revenge makeover!" Not because she's not good looking enough or anything, but because of the talents you have to perform. "My talents are not baton twirling or Hula-Hooping or tap dancing or ventriloquism or yodeling. "I would be eliminated right away. Out. No talent." "When a couple breaks up in Hollywood, it's the woman who is scorned. The woman is left sad and alone. She's the failure. F that." "It started in my 20s. It was a weird, scary flight," Aniston explained. "Afterward I started noticing the stories on the news about plane crashes... So, yeah, that's something I'd like to get rid of. It's so irrational." The actress confirmed she doesn't have social media accounts, but added she's can be a "creeper" on Instagram. "There are times when I'll look through and think, 'Oh my god, what a time suck!'" She also added her name to the growing number of celebrities who are social media-sceptic, adding that such platforms are "fueling narcissism". Aniston's latest movie Dumplin' is written, produced, and directed primarily by women, with female lead characters. Praising the "extraordinary" team, she argued that women should not be hired for the sake of industry box-ticking, but on merit. "We shouldn't be shoving female directors and producers down each other's throats because we have to. Then we're making those decisions from a place of fear." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.