Police forces in Wales have broken up parties, football matches and fined people for visiting beauty spots this weekend while Wales is in lockdown. Two motorists were reported by North Wales Police in Anglesey after driving from Scotland to visit friends. While in Swansea, eight people were fined after a party was held in a shed. The drivers from Scotland were stopped by police at Valley, near Holyhead, and reported for driving without insurance and breaching Covid travel restrictions. Officers from North Wales Police on Saturday also stopped a car from Portsmouth as the driver was travelling to "collect a front bumper". Due to the number of people on Penarth Esplanade today, had no choice but to close the road in order to disperse the crowds and ensure the safety of the public. and only travel for essential reasons     "Travelling nearly 300 miles for a piece of cosmetic plastic for your car is not essential at this time," said North Wales Police's Intercept team. "The regulations have been broadcast far and wide. Please be mindful you will be reported if your journey is not essential." Blackwood NPT officers were out on covid patrols this morning at scenic Drive Cwmcarn issuing Fixed Penalties to individuals who CANT follow Lockdown Rules   Even though national parks have shut , North Wales Police said it received about 100 calls on Saturday about potential Covid breaches - and officers told people they need to take "personal responsibility" and "stay home". South Wales Police officers issued fixed penalty notices after finding people from "all different households" in a shed - which had been converted into a bar - in the Sketty area of Swansea all "mixing together". This week we've started to see encouraging signs of improvement in most parts of Wales. But we mustn't let our guard down - the situation can change quickly. Our path out of this pandemic is in front of us. We all need to take steps to stay safe from this dreadful virus. A further nine fixed penalty notices were given out in the Townhill area of the city after different households attended a baby reveal party on Sunday. Five people were warned about breaking laws in Neath Port Talbot after a group travelled to a field to play football, while four people were fined after a house party in Aberavon. Under coronavirus rules people are only allowed to leave their homes for "essential" reasons, including to shop for food, get medical treatment and to exercise. While exercise is allowed, people are not allowed to drive to a spot for a walk, run or cycle, and the law means exercising with people you do not live with (or who are your bubble if you live alone) is banned. Those found to be in breach of Covid laws can be fined PS60 for the first offence, with the penalties increasing up to PS1,920. If prosecuted, however, a court can impose an unlimited fine. Until recently police had been using an education first approach, . In Powys, road officers from Dyfed-Powys Police stopped cars and turned around people driving to exercise. The suppression of coronavirus depends on people staying home and travelling only if essential. Wales is beautiful but now is not the time for visiting or exploring. We look forward to welcoming you back in the future, but for now please remember to only travel if essential. In Port Talbot, two people sat on a bench drinking alcohol were fined by South Wales Police for "leaving home without a reasonable excuse". Gwent Police officers broke-up a house party in Glyn-Gaer, Caerphilly county, on Friday evening and issued fines. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.