Footage shared on social media shows a male police officer striking out during an arrest in north London. During the incident a 16-year-old boy "sustained facial injuries". The Met confirmed the incident took place after officers stopped a group of males on West Green Road, Haringey, at 16:50 GMT on 8 December, and said three officers suffered injuries. Four males, all aged 16, were arrested. They have been bailed to return to a north London police station on a date in January. One of the males was originally detained for the purpose of a search, the Met said. A crowd formed and officers made a circle around the person being searched. Det Ch Supt Treena Fleming said: "I am aware of videos circulating on social media showing part of the incident and we are working to establish the full circumstances of what occurred. "A criminal investigation is under way to ascertain how the officers received their injuries and welfare support is being provided to them. "A public complaint has been received and we recognise the community concern around this incident so we have made a voluntary referral to the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC). "It is important to remember that videos show a snap shot in time and the wider context is not immediately obvious. "I would ask that our communities allow us the time for the incident to be reviewed in full so that all the circumstances can be established." The IOPC confirmed it is investigating an incident where a 16-year-old boy "sustained facial injuries" during an arrest. IOPC Regional Director Sal Naseem said: "We are aware of the significant community concerns raised as a result of this incident. "We have decided to independently investigate the complaint about the boy's interactions with the police. "We ask that anyone who has mobile footage of the incident to please retain it and we will issue a telephone number in due course where witnesses can make contact with the IOPC." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.