Join BBC 100 Women and expert speakers for a special day of discussions and workshops. Join BBC 100 Women and expert speakers for a special day of discussions and workshops. Our most inspiring and influential women of 2020 and how they're making a difference in the world. For thousands of years Inupaiq people have relied on the land in Alaska but now climate change is threatening their entire way of life. As an 82-year-old Jane Fonda is still protesting - this time about climate change - and getting arrested. Elin Williams writes a blog to help other people with sight loss, but it has become her own "survival tool". The "unscientific" examinations are condemned by international organisations such as the UN. Esra, a former political prisoner in Egypt describes the physical abuse she experienced while in detention. Join BBC 100 Women and expert speakers for a special day of discussions and workshops. Our most inspiring and influential women of 2020 and how they're making a difference in the world. For thousands of years Inupaiq people have relied on the land in Alaska but now climate change is threatening their entire way of life. As an 82-year-old Jane Fonda is still protesting - this time about climate change - and getting arrested. Elin Williams writes a blog to help other people with sight loss, but it has become her own "survival tool". The "unscientific" examinations are condemned by international organisations such as the UN. Esra, a former political prisoner in Egypt describes the physical abuse she experienced while in detention. Our most inspiring and influential women of 2020 and how they're making a difference in the world. For thousands of years Inupaiq people have relied on the land in Alaska but now climate change is threatening their entire way of life. As an 82-year-old Jane Fonda is still protesting - this time about climate change - and getting arrested. By Ritu Prasad BBC News The role of a president's inaugural cabinet goes beyond just policy - let's take a closer look. A woman raises awareness about a condition developed in pregnancy, saying early treatment is important. By Fan Wang and Grace Tsoi BBC World Service, Hong Kong Wuhan writer Fang Fang talks about the price she has had to pay for her controversial lockdown diaries. By Zoe Kleinman Technology reporter Millions of women use apps to track their menstrual cycle, but many say they do not work well enough. Belinda Janson hopes she won't be the only woman driving garbage trucks in Ipswich, Australia, for long. Pope Francis welcomes women performing Catholic rites, though they cannot become priests. By Sophia Smith-Galer BBC World Service Malta has the EU's strictest abortion ban - but pressure is growing to ease it. It comes after rules banning women from 356 jobs considered "too dangerous" were lifted last year. by Flora Drury & BBC Urdu BBC News Karima Baloch was found dead in Toronto. Her family says she never stopped getting threats, even in exile. For 12 year a group of women from St Cedma's Parish Church in Larne have met to sew quilts together. Paris authorities are being fined EUR90,000 for promoting too many women to senior positions in 2018. Poland has been rocked by weeks of protest over a ruling by the Constitutional Court, which has all but outlawed abortion, forcing even more Polish women to seek abortions abroad. From stories of sexual abuse, to the industry's response and the hopes of the next generation of DJs - Newsbeat explores the impact of Erick Morillo's death on the dance world. By Vibeke Venema BBC World Service The 1980 hit comedy 9 to 5 was inspired by a real protest movement, which is profiled in a new documentary. One woman, photographed for a series about Essex women, is "amazed" it was ever included. Novelist Robert Harris joins Fi Glover and Jane Garvey for this week's Fortunately podcast. Safa al-Hashem had served since 2012 in a country where women first voted in 2005. By Julia Bryson BBC News Samantha Jagger has been documenting what goes on within the four walls of the women's toilets. By Carl Yapp BBC Wales News Eileen Younghusband had a "wonderful story" author Robert Harris only learnt of in her obituary. The government says its review will help "ensure there is a diversity of provision and facilities for everyone." Email us at Send an SMS or MMS to Follow