Meghan Markle married Prince Harry at Windsor Castle in May 2018 and gave birth to their son Archie this year. Speaking in an ITV documentary, the duchess referred to her life under the spotlight "on top of just trying to be a new mom or trying to be a newlywed". She added: "Not many people have asked if I'm OK. But it's a very real thing to be going through behind the scenes." The Duke and Duchess of Sussex were both interviewed by Tom Bradby during their tour of southern Africa in September. Asked how she was coping, Meghan said: "Look, any woman - especially when they are pregnant - you're really vulnerable and so that was made really challenging, and then when you have a new born - you know? "And especially as a woman, it's a lot..." The duchess added: "And also, thank you for asking, because not many people have asked if I'm OK..." When asked if it would be fair to say it had "really been a struggle", Meghan said: "Yes." The documentary Harry & Meghan: An African Journey airs on ITV on Sunday at 21:00 BST. Prince Harry described the memories surrounding the death of his mother, Diana, Princess of Wales, in 1997 as "a wound that festers". On the tour, the prince visited an anti-landmine project championed by his mother in Angola and told ITV it had been "emotional" to trace her footsteps. "I think being part of this family, in this role, in this job, every single time I see a camera, every single time I hear a click, every single time I see a flash, it takes me straight back, so in that respect it's the worst reminder of her life, as opposed to the best." As the tour ended, the duke and duchess both brought legal actions against the press. over a claim that it unlawfully published one of her private letters. against the owners of the Sun, the defunct News of the World, and the Daily Mirror, in relation to alleged phone-hacking. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.