Earl Sewell, 72, from Handsworth Wood, Birmingham, who had underlying health conditions, died on Monday at City Hospital. His wife, two sons, daughter-in-law and three-year-old granddaughter are self-isolating for 14 days. They were told to register his death within five days, but are "stuck". Mr Sewell's widow, Jean, said her husband had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and emphysema. She said he contracted the virus at home and was taken into hospital. The couple had been married for 38 years. Mr Sewell came to Birmingham from Jamaica in the 1960s and worked as a die caster and later in food production. A father of two sons, Lloyd and Leon, he was a lover of horse racing, and had been due to attend Lloyd's wedding in the summer. Mrs Sewell, 68, said: "The hospital were wonderful, they did let us stay with him until he passed away. "But we are now all in social isolation for 14 days." She said they had tried to obtain the medical certificate they would need to register his death, but had been told it could not be posted "because of the possibilities it could get into the wrong hands". She said if they were able to receive it, they would not be able to visit a register office. "The booklet that the hospital gave us, you're supposed to register the death within five days," she said. "There is just no process in place, and I know it is early days because there haven't been many deaths yet, but there needs to be something put in place. "I am just stuck, I need help or advice." Sandwell and West Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust's chief executive Toby Lewis apologised for the "distress caused". He said: "We are arranging to get the death certificate to them in the unconventional circumstances of the current pandemic. "For circumstances where next of kin are unable to collect the death certificate, for example because they are self-isolating, we can enable a nominated person to collect this on their behalf or arrange to deliver it directly. "These arrangements failed this week and we are working to resolve that." The family is also calling on others to heed advice over the seriousness of the virus. Earl's son Leon said: "We and dad would like people to not underestimate the global and UK situation, and look after each other, look after neighbours and look after old people and those in need. "But do these things at the same time as being safe and reducing risks." Birmingham City Council said that if the family of a deceased person has been told to self-isolate, arrangements can be made for an alternative qualified informant to collect the medical certificate and go to a register office. "This can be another relative, someone present at the death or an administrator from the hospital," the council said. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.