It is part of a banned from driving through the city centre by 2031. But how will it work and how will it affect you? The BBC looks at some of the key questions and answers. Proposals put forward are a penalty for vehicles with high nitrogen dioxide (NO2) emissions, so there wouldn't be a congestion charge with a blanket tariff on everyone going into the zone. Paying would only apply to non-compliant vehicles - diesels manufactured before 2015 and petrol cars made before 2006. The Department for Transport has now launched an online which will allow drivers to see if they will be affected by the change. The proposed charges for high-polluting vehicles are PS8 for cars and PS50 for buses and HGVs driving in central Birmingham. However, there will be some exemptions.  Charges will not be applied: There will be permanent exemptions for vans and minibuses registered to provide school and community transport and for vehicles with disabled tax class. Vehicles entering the area inside the ring road will be picked up by automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) cameras, so there won't be any barriers or toll booths. For those who do incur charges, these will be payable online. And if you don't pay up, you could face a PS120 fine under proposals. However, people will not pay for vehicles below the emissions standard if they are parked within the zone all day but are not turned on. All roads inside the A4540 Middleway ring road would fall into the clean air zone, but the circular route itself is not included. So, for example, that means drivers travelling on the M6 who leave at Spaghetti Junction would be charged if they go right through the city centre on the A38. The council believes the ring road is a sensible boundary which is clear to motorists and the clean air zone covers most of the worst pollution hotspots in the city. It is proposed the charge is in effect all day every day. The council has secured PS15m to help taxi drivers upgrade to newer, cleaner vehicles. Go-slow protests have happened in Birmingham from people in the trade who argue the clean air zone is a threat to their livelihood. Council transport and environment chief Waseem Zaffar said in March 2019 it would enable them "to continue providing their valuable service to the city". Air pollution is widely regarded as a public health crisis in Birmingham that contributes to 900 premature deaths a year in the city. The Labour-run council has stated because of the ministerial direction it had received, it was "impossible" to introduce a zone without charges. It faces a fine of up to PS60m if it fails to implement the zone in time. Out of the 200,000 vehicles that pass through the city centre every day, about 60% do not comply with the required emission standards, studies have suggested. The government had demanded the zone was implemented by January 2020, but it will now come into effect in June 2021. It was delayed by issues with the government's vehicle-checking software and the economic impact of coronavirus. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.