The event to honour the 100-year-old, who raised more than PS32m for NHS charities, will take place at Windsor Castle on Friday. In May, Prime Minister Boris Johnson Capt Sir Tom said he "could never have imagined this would happen" and that it would be "the most special of days". Royal investitures were put on hold during the coronavirus pandemic with those scheduled to take place at Buckingham Palace and the Palace of Holyroodhouse in Edinburgh in June and July postponed. However, the Queen, who has been staying at Windsor during the lockdown, will carry out the official engagement in person. People have been asked not to go to Windsor and there will be no viewpoint available to watch the ceremony. Capt Sir Tom, who was given the honorary title of colonel on his 100th birthday, had initially set out to raise PS1,000 for NHS charities by walking laps of the 82ft (25m) loop in his garden in Marston Moretaine, Bedfordshire. But he eventually raised PS32,794,701 from more than one and a half million supporters. Capt Sir Tom will travel to the Berkshire royal residence with members of his family. The Queen will use the sword that belonged to her father, George VI, and will present him with the insignia of Knight Bachelor. In a message , Capt Sir Tom said: "I could never have imagined this would happen to me. "It is such a huge honour and I am very much looking forward to meeting Her Majesty The Queen. "It is going to be the most special of days for me." On Saturday, David Beckham paid a visit to Capt Sir Tom as he was named the first member of the Lionhearts squad of heroes. The Football Association scheme aims to "pay homage to inspirational" figures. Former England skipper Beckham made the trip to Capt Sir Tom's home to hand over a framed football shirt and to say thank you. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.