The university's management said after Covid's impact on international student recruitment. Its current plans mean , but Bangor's University and College Union has proposed a temporary pay cut on a sliding scale over two years. The college said it was trying answer "unprecedented challenges". But Prof Doris Merkl-Davies, Bangor UCU committee member and Bangor Business School UCU representative, said members were ready to fight for their colleagues' jobs. "Staff morale is incredibly low. Even staff in schools with no redundancies, such as the Business School, feel that this is just a temporary reprieve," she said. "'Nobody is safe,' they say. 'Next year it may be us.' This feeling has engendered a strong sense of solidarity." The union is proposing that those at the bottom end of the pay scale (earning PS20,130) would take the smallest cut of 0.5%. Meanwhile, top earners (managers earning over PS114,000) would take the greatest cut (15%). This proposal alone could save between PS5m and PS5.4m, according to the union. Members say they would accept this "collective sacrifice" in exchange for a pause in the current restructuring process, and a guarantee of no compulsory redundancies for the duration of the two-year period of the proposed pay cut. Responding to the no confidence motion, a college official said: "Bangor University is actively and professionally dealing with the consequences of a global pandemic which has had a very direct impact on the university. "We are currently in a consultation phase and are working with our staff to find solutions to the unprecedented challenges we face. "Our priority is our students and staff, and to emerge stronger as one of the leading universities in Wales, as the research led university in north Wales playing a full part in the post-Covid economy and recovery in the region." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.