Some sports teams and production crews will not have to quarantine upon arrival in England if they are essential to the event or production. The scheme gives the green light for Formula One, international football, golf and snooker tournaments to return. Ministers said darts, horse racing and other sports are expected to follow. The government's new quarantine exemptions mean Silverstone will be able to stage races in August, while Champions League and Europa League football, the PGA British Masters Championship and the World Snooker Championships will go ahead. Announcing the scheme, which applies to England only, Culture Secretary Oliver Dowden said: "The British summer of sport is back on." Under the new rules, sports authorities, event organisers and the film and TV industry would need to follow "stringent protocols" to become exempt from the 14-day quarantine rule. At the moment, most travellers to the UK must quarantine for two weeks. However, from 10 July, people arriving in England from will not have to isolate. Those who earn exemption by following the new rules will have to live and work in controlled "bubbled" environments and must be tested for coronavirus regularly. People working in the film industry will be required to remain for 14 days within a bubble that includes only their accommodation and production location. The scheme will apply to individuals coming into England specifically to work on film and television productions which qualify as British under one of the government's cultural tests or official co-production treaties. It comes as the culture secretary is under increasing pressure to provide further support to the performing arts. The government's plan for the return of live theatre and music, announced last week, amid calls for financial help and a timetable for reopening. Actors' union Equity said that without investment to save jobs and venues, such guidance would be "meaningless". The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.