But there are changes to usual practices for worshippers of all religions. In the areas of the UK where communal worship is allowed, a number of common measures are in place: Unlike in November's lockdown, acts of communal worship to continue in churches, synagogues, mosques, gurdwaras, temples and meeting rooms. The number allowed at any service is determined by a risk assessment on the building where it is held. No more than 30 people are allowed to attend funerals. Weddings and civil partnership ceremonies can only take place in exceptional circumstances (for example, where one of those getting married is seriously ill and not expected to recover) and only six people can attend. Wales is currently under alert level 4 restrictions - effectively a lockdown - and is Places of worship are open for communal service, but the asks religious bodies to think about alternative ways of holding services - for example broadcasting services without a congregation. Marriages, civil partnerships, alternative wedding ceremonies and funerals are allowed. The number who can attend is determined by the size and layout of the building. However, the Welsh government says consideration should be given to whether these or other "life event ceremonies" such as baptism or bar mitzvah, can be postponed until the alert level has been lowered, or if the numbers that would normally attend can be reduced. Supervised children's activities such as Sunday schools and madrassas are not permitted. Places of worship in mainland Scotland (and the isles of Skye, Arran, Bute and Gigha) are currently closed for either communal services or private prayer. Under , they are only allowed to open for broadcasting a service, or conducting a funeral, marriage or civil partnership ceremony. Only five people are allowed at a wedding ceremony, while 20 are permitted to attend a funeral service. Scottish isles (except those listed above) are under and can remain open, subject to 2m distancing and a maximum of 20 worshippers. Wedding ceremonies and civil partnerships, with a maximum of 20 people (including the couple) are also allowed Northern Ireland's main Christian denominations are to cease public worship until early February. This includes the Catholic Church, Church of Ireland, the Presbyterian and Methodist Churches In-person gatherings for worship, along with most other church gatherings, will not take place until Saturday 6 February. Marriages and civil partnerships ceremonies are limited to 25 people. This includes children under 12 and the celebrant. A risk assessment is required if more than 15 people are attending. Funerals are limited to 25 people. The remains of the deceased may be taken back to private homes, but wakes are not to be held and funeral services in private homes are not to take place. Faith leaders have broadly accepted the need for restrictions, and urged worshippers to look after their health. The Muslim Council of Britain urges "strong caution for mosques wishing to continue remaining open to the public for worship... and for tremendous care to be exercised". Meanwhile the Bishop of London, Rev Sarah Mullally, who has been in charge of , says that "some may feel that it is currently better not to attend in person... Clergy who have concerns, and others who are shielding, should take particular care and stay at home". The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.