US President Donald Trump denounced the move, tweeting it was "cancel culture at work!" In use since 1915, opponents have long said the name is racist and offensive to Native Americans. "We believe our organisation is at its best when we can unify our community," the baseball team said in a statement on Monday. as racial justice protests convulsed the US following the death of George Floyd. The 46-year-old died in May after a white police officer knelt on his neck for almost nine minutes. The team's review included discussions with civic leaders and Native American people, said team owner Paul Dolan in a statement. "While Indians will always be a part of our history, it is time to move forward." The talks provided "a deep understanding of how tribal communities feel about the team name and the detrimental effects it has on them", he said. It is not yet clear when the team will formally change its name, or what moniker will replace it. President Trump criticised the planned move. Retweeting a report about the name switch, he said it was "not good news, even for 'Indians'". Oh no! What is going on? This is not good news, even for "Indians". Cancel culture at work! The term "cancel culture" is used when people or companies face a rapid public backlash or even boycott over statements or actions perceived by some to be offensive. Protests over the Cleveland Indians' name have, however, taken place for decades. Opponents have held demonstrations on the opening day of the baseball season every year since 1973, and protests grew in size in the 1990s - particularly when in the World Series in 1995 the team played the Atlanta Braves, another side critics say have an offensive name. Last year from their uniforms after announcing it was "no longer appropriate". Critics said the symbol was offensive to Native Americans and perpetuated stereotypes. Numerous companies and brands worldwide have announced changes in the wake of George Floyd's killing. The Washington Redskins, the American football team, after sponsors threatened to pull funding. They are known now simply as the Washington Football Team, until another name is chosen. Quaker Oats acknowledged in June that its Aunt Jemima brand was based on racial stereotypes and . And in September, and drop the image of a smiling black man from its packaging. It is expected the new branding will appear in shops from 2021. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.