Dumfries and Galloway saw 432 new positive tests in the week ending 17 January, down from 561 the week before. However, the health board said hospitals were still being put under "huge strain" by new admissions. Chief executive Jeff Ace said it was vital that the public "go further and do more" to help bring cases down. "What we're seeing just now is proof is that people hold the power to affect the trajectory of this regionwide outbreak," he said. "The truth is, what happens in Dumfries and Galloway is down to every one of us, individually, and our actions." The region had some of the lowest levels in mainland Scotland before Christmas and was under level 1 restrictions. However, a case "spike" saw it become one of the council areas with the highest infection rate per 100,000 people. Numbers have since declined but Mr Ace said health services were still under pressure. "In the past week we had up to 70 cases of Covid in hospital at a single point, which may not sound a lot in national terms but is a huge impact on a small region like ours, with much smaller scale systems," he said. "Even with this fall in numbers it will take time for that to translate into fewer cases needing urgent treatment. "And if we level out at these current rates, it's going to be incredibly difficult to sustain, or to see an immediate path out of lockdown - as cases would likely take off again from a far higher starting point than when this outbreak began." He said it was "hugely important" that people kept "as much distance from one another as possible" to halt transmission. Asked about the situation during the daily briefing, Deputy First Minister John Swinney said it showed why tighter restrictions had been necessary. He said cases in Dumfries and Galloway had been "galloping away" at an "alarming rate". However, national clinical director Prof Jason Leitch said there were "green shoots of hope" in the decline in case numbers being seen. He said it was now up to the public to play its part in ensuring that the downward trend continued. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.