The Care Quality Commission (CQC) said three services at Kettering General Hospital were inadequate, including children's services and emergency care. The CQC's chief inspector said there were "a number of serious problems", with staff struggling under pressure. The hospital said it had already taken steps to improve its services. Outpatients and diagnostic imaging were also rated as inadequate, with medical care, surgery, maternity and gynaecology requiring improvement. CQC inspectors identified concerns across a number of services. They said: Chief Inspector Prof Sir Mike Richards recommended the trust be placed into special measures on the basis of the inspection last October. He said: "My team found that the majority of staff were hard working, passionate and caring but had to struggle against the pressures they faced. "One of the reasons we rated the trust as inadequate for being well-led and safe was because risks to patients were not always identified and, when they were identified, there was a lack of adequate management of these." The said: "All staff were passionate about providing high quality patient care - patients we spoke to described staff as caring and professional." The trust said the recommendation to put the hospital in special measures would enable it "to receive additional expert support". Kettering General Hospital's director of nursing and quality Leanne Hackshall said: "We welcome the CQC's very detailed inspection of the trust and are disappointed that we did not do better in it. "We have an improvement plan underway which is addressing the areas highlighted by the CQC. "Some actions are already complete and others are in process. "Clearly it will take some time to address all of the issues listed in the report and bring them up to standard." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.