The average number of new cases per day has been rising steadily following a spike of infections before Christmas. The percentage of people testing positive in Scotland has also been higher than 12% for the past two days. National clinical director Prof Jason Leitch urged people not to delay their test if they had symptoms. show that 967 cases were reported on Monday, taking the total during the whole pandemic to 120,891. The number of deaths following a positive test remains at 4,416, but no update is being given on this figure between 25 and 28 December. Hospital and ICU figures will also not be updated until 29 December. The "positivity rate" reached 12.3% on Sunday - the highest it has been during the second wave of the pandemic and a significant rise on recent weeks. The rate is important because the World Health Organisation says the percentage of positive test results is a key measure when assessing the status of a Covid-19 outbreak within a country. Although the rate fluctuates daily, a two-day period above 12% is notable. The Scottish government said Covid-19 testing centres were open as normal over the Christmas period and people should not put off getting a test if they have symptoms. Delaying tests would "hamper efforts" to tackle which is believed to be much more transmissible. Dumfries and Galloway Health and Social Care Partnership said The new strain of the virus has been identified as part of this outbreak, which has grown from from 64 cases on Boxing Day to 142 on Monday. Meanwhile concern has been raised that Shetland could be moved from level three to level four, amid a rise in cases. There have been 10 cases linked to North Mainland in the last 24 hours 120 people have been asked to isolate. Prof Leitch said it was "paramount" people did not delay getting a test. "Getting tested also helps to give us the up-to-date data on how Covid-19 is spreading, which we need to tackle the virus," he said. "If people delay that testing then they are potentially putting other people at risk. "So if you have a high temperature or fever, new continuous cough or a change in sense of smell or taste, you should self-isolate and please book a test immediately." All of mainland Scotland on 26 December. Millions of people are now living under level four curbs - the highest of the country's five-tier system of anti-virus measures. The change means non-essential retail and hospitality have been closed and additional travel restrictions imposed to curb a new strain of the virus. The restrictions are due to be reviewed in three weeks. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.