The investigation is in part a response to the global #MeToo movement against sexual misconduct, Sex Discrimination Commissioner Kate Jenkins said. The government described the inquiry, to take 12 months, as the most comprehensive of its type globally. It will aim to implement sweeping standards, including potentially the introduction of new criminal laws. "MeToo has resulted in a lot of women and men speaking out about sexual harassment and we know workplaces want to do better," Ms Jenkins said on Wednesday. The Australian Human Rights Commission (AHRC) has described sexual harassment as a "persistent and pervasive problem in Australian workplaces". It says more than 20% of Australians over the age of 15 have experienced sexual harassment at work. Although most employers have anti-harassment policies, Ms Jenkins said these had not "actually changed the behaviours in the workplace". "We need to continue working to create a society where this kind of conduct is unthinkable, and where sexual harassment at work is not something people simply have to put up with," she said. Under Australian law, sexual harassment is defined as any unwelcome sexual advance or conduct of a sexual nature where someone feels offended, humiliated or intimidated. Earlier this year, But the Australian government says its inquiry will be unprecedented globally because of its large scale and oversight by the AHRC, an independent human rights body. "We can't find any other country that's looking at this issue in such a comprehensive manner," Minister for Women Kelly O'Dwyer said. The inquiry will cost an estimated A$900,000 (PS500,000; $665,000), more than half funded by the government, and be overseen by Ms Jenkins. Although not a legislative body, the AHRC can make recommendations about laws to federal and state governments. Ms Jenkins said that "all options" would be considered, including the possibility of recommending criminal laws. The commissioner will hold public consultations around Australia and invite submissions from individuals and organisations. In developing new workplace guidelines, the inquiry will examine and assess: It will also attempt to determine the financial cost of sexual harassment on the economy, as well as on individuals. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.