The broadcaster will also offer more about education, fitness, religion and recipes for those stuck at home. A dedicated coronavirus podcast will be released daily, and the BBC's local radio stations will provide support to communities around the country. ITV will also broadcast news specials and suspend some planned entertainment shows including The Voice UK. Ant & Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway will go ahead this weekend, but without a live audience for the first time. There will be "further developments and challenges ahead - such as filling the gaps left by the suspension of sporting events", ITV director of television Kevin Lygo said. "We are already seeing new ideas coming through which might provide innovative new ways of producing TV in these uniquely challenging times." BBC director general Tony Hall said: "We all know these are challenging times for each and every one of us. As the national broadcaster, the BBC has a special role to play at this time of national need. "We need to pull together to get through this. That's why the BBC will be using all of its resources - channels, stations and output - to help keep the nation informed, educated and entertained." Lord Hall added: "It will take time to emerge from the challenges we all face, but the BBC will be there for the public all the way through this. Clearly there will be disruption to our output along the way, but we will do our very best." Also on Wednesday, BBC soaps and continuing dramas including EastEnders, Casualty, Holby City and Doctors put their production schedules on hold. ITV also announced changes to its schedules, including a new weekly Monday night show - - which will be produced by ITV News and "give viewers an in-depth insight into issues affecting them during the current crisis". The live semi-final and final of have been postponed until later in the year. The knockouts, which are pre-recorded, will continue to be broadcast this weekend as planned. The audition shows are still due to be broadcast in the next few weeks as planned, and ITV said it was looking at logistical options for the live finals. ITV has already confirmed its soaps and will continue, but with reduced filming schedules and only three episodes of Corrie per week. Earlier this week, the BBC also announced a number of changes to its news output in light of the coronavirus outbreak. Programmes including and have been temporarily suspended, allowing the BBC News Channel to focus on "core news". , which sees political figures and commentators take questions from the public, will move to a prime time 20:00 slot on BBC One. However, it will proceed without a studio audience for the time being. The practicalities of putting questions to the panel during this period is "still being worked on", BBC media editor Amol Rajan said. on BBC Two and on BBC One will remain on air but will be operated by fewer technical staff; while , and the News Channel's will be suspended. will also be suspended from next week. Radio news will see fewer changes initially, although news summaries on Radios 2, 3, 4 and 5 Live will be combined into a single output from Friday. , and podcasts will be suspended, while will become the BBC Coronavirus podcast for the foreseeable future. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.