The Belfast-bound Stena Line ferry was advised by Port Health Authorities not to leave Birkenhead after six members of staff were found to have coronavirus. All 322 passengers have now disembarked and the 53 crew members are being tested for Covid-19. Stena Line said passengers would travel to Belfast on another ferry. Passenger Alan Cogan said he was waiting for the replacement Stena Mersey vessel to take him home to Northern Ireland, but the delay meant he had to cancel a work video conference meeting. He said tensions were initially high when a public announcement was first made at about 03:30 GMT, more than five hours after the Stena Edda's departure time. "I know there were a few irate people this morning," he said. "We all had visions of what had happened to the crew ships around the world when passengers had tested positive and were left stranded and not allowed off. "That would be a nightmare. It's not the most comfortable boat." The 47-year-old, who is an area manager for a heating company, said staff had "been friendly and supportive". Malcolm Sheen said he only realised the ferry had stayed in Birkenhead overnight when he woke up in the early hours. "At 03:30, half asleep, I heard an announcement over the tannoy," he said. "I didn't quite catch what had been said so assumed it was the announcement they make as we approach Belfast, which usually happens at 05:30. "I looked out of the porthole and thought, that's not Belfast, that's Liverpool." Mr Sheen, who is from Devon, said he had to wait in his van for almost two hours before he could disembark. "At 10:00, I went down to my van and had to sit and wait in it for all the lorries to get backed up off the ferry," he said. "At 11:45, I managed to get off and most passengers on board were transferred to the other ferry." He added that he hoped he had not "been in contact with any of the crew members that tested positive". A woman who is travelling to Belfast with her three-year-old daughter for a funeral said she boarded "with no problems" and was not made aware of any risks about Covid-19. "I went to my cabin and went to bed. We were not informed of any problems until 03:30 in the morning," she said. "We had no further updates until 07:45 and that's when we where told that we would be moving to another ship to sail to Belfast. "We were given a free cooked breakfast onboard, they were all giving free drinks to everyone onboard." Stena Line said the six crew members were "doing well" and were showing mild symptoms. The company said another 15 people were self-isolating after being identified as "close contacts". "The welfare of our passengers and crew is paramount at this time," it added. . Or use this form to get in touch: If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the to submit your comment or send it via email to . Please include your name, age and location with any comment you send in. northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.