A two-week lockdown is due to end at 23:59 GMT on Thursday. Last week, First Minister Arlene Foster But the Stormont executive was advised that if cases spike in the next few weeks, . Ms O'Neill said on Tuesday that she was a "realist" and that the executive could not provide "cast-iron guarantees" to the public about whether or not repeated interventions were needed. "I hope we don't have to get to the point where we have to bring in more restrictions but we have to keep everything on the table," she added. "We must keep everything under daily review, this will continue right through the Christmas period into the New Year." Ms O'Neill welcomed as a "good news day". Sister Joanna Sloan - who will head up the vaccine roll out in Belfast - received the jab just after 08:00 GMT at the Royal Victoria Hospital. "The tide is starting to turn," said Ms O'Neill. "It shows confidence and optimism about the way forward." Speaking later in County Fermanagh, Mrs Foster said she was "delighted" that the first vaccinations had taken place. She described the programme as NI's "pathway out of Covid-19". Asked if she stood by her previous comments ruling out further restrictions before Christmas, the first minister said she did not believe measures would be imposed over the five-day Christmas window agreed by the four UK nations earlier this month. It will mean from 23 to 27 December. "We have to watch what is happening very carefully, but none of this is inevitable and personal responsibility plays a big part," she added. "We are sill facing a significant degree of uncertainty." Meanwhile on Tuesday, the Department of Health recorded 14 further Covid-19 deaths taking the total death toll to 1,073. It also confirmed 351 new positive cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, bringing the total number of positive cases in Northern Ireland to 55,795. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.