Latest figures show 1,529 beds are occupied - 20% of all patients in hospital. They include 983 beds occupied with confirmed Covid-19 patients. However, the number of patients in critical care or on ventilators with coronavirus has only reached 40% of the levels at the height of the first wave. About a third of all Covid patients are in the Cwm Taf Morgannwg health board area, where But although lower numbers, the increase in patients is most marked in Betsi Cadwaladr (up 48%), Swansea Bay (up 23%) and Hywel Dda (up by a third) in the last week. Meanwhile, separate Public Health Wales figures reported fewer Covid-19 infections linked to outbreaks in hospitals in Wales in the latest week. There was however a rise in infections in Betsi Cadwaladr, Swansea Bay and Hywel Dda health boards. These figures show clearly the impact the second wave is having on the NHS and its staff. In terms of sheer numbers of Covid patients, the pressure is right up there with what they were dealing with in the spring. But the difference then was that the NHS had already postponed pretty much all other non-urgent treatment, so that resources could be targeted at Covid care. But the strain is arguably worse this time as it tries to continue to deliver other services in so far as possible. Front-line staff I've talked to at some of the hardest-hit hospitals so far talk of Covid patients in intensive care being "sicker" than they were before. They talk of A&E departments struggling not just with Covid, but also with the usual winter pressures that are growing. And they talk of nurses once again having to do "brutal shifts" in full PPE. All of this when much of the workforce is still exhausted. The good news is that the number of Covid patients in intensive care is lower than it was at the height of the first wave. This suggests the NHS is having some success in preventing patients from deteriorating to a point where they need to be put on ventilators. But that's not to say intensive care is not under a lot of pressure. Units are already full way beyond what their capacity would be in normal times - dealing also with large numbers of patients seriously ill with other conditions. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.