Merseyrail stopped services on Friday morning over fears icy weather could lead to power blockages to engines. Mayor Steve Rotheram said it was "unacceptable" and asked for an inquiry to "learn lessons" after a meeting with the operator and Network Rail. Network Rail said the risk of trains being stranded was "very high". Phil James, the company's north west route director, said he was "sorry to everyone impacted" and the "tough decision" had been taken, with Merseyrail, to suspend services so track de-icing could take place. He said empty test trains that had been sent out had lost power on icy rails. "With freezing weather forecast to worsen overnight the risk of trains losing power and becoming stranded due to ice on the electric rail was very high," he said. The tracks were de-iced and services were resumed. Mr Rotheram "This afternoon I have met with Network Rail and Merseyrail to convey that I believe the situation this morning was unacceptable for our city region. "I have also written to Network Rail asking for a formal inquiry to learn lessons and to try and prevent this from happening again." The network-wide cancellations had prompted some anger and confusion, with many rail users saying there had been little or no snow. One said: "What do they do in Switzerland, Austria, Germany, Russia when the snow comes? In my experience they just keep running. "The snow isn't even heavy and they want to close down the network." No one will ever convince drivers to 'use the car less' when this much snow cancels all the Merseyrail trains for the entire day. Been using merseyrail 4 many winters & you've always run a service UNTIL the conditions forced u 2 stop. Whats the rationale 4 reversing your approach this time? Prep as usual, run as scheduled, & if the conditions worsen, then stop. Uber to then...can I bill you? A Merseyrail spokesperson said they would "fully review the circumstances surrounding the service disruption caused by adverse weather, ensuring any lessons learnt are identified." The rail operator did not put replacement buses in operation, though rail season tickets were accepted by Arriva, Stagecoach and Mersey Ferries services. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.