- Some pupils will return for "orientation days" on Wednesday 12, Thursday 13 and Friday 14 August prior to schools being fully reopen from Tuesday August 18 at the latest. Staff will be in from Monday 10 August. - Children will return from Wednesday 12 August. Some schools will have a phased return, but all pupils should be back full time from Monday 17 August. Monday 10 and Tuesday 11 August will be staff in-service days. - All children to return to school full time on Monday 17 August. The first week of term will be used to adjust and test out new routines. Schools will contact parents directly with arrangements for Wednesday 12, Thursday 13 and Friday 14 August. Tuesday 11 August is an in-service day. - All pupils will return on Wednesday 12 August. 11 August will be an in-service day for staff. - Pupils will be back from 12 August on a phased basis. In the first few days of the new term, the priority will be to settle S1 pupils into their new secondary school, and getting senior phase pupils started on course work. All Primary School pupils will be back full time, although there may be some exceptions if children need extra time and support to settle back in to full-time schooling. - Pupils are expected to return on 12 August but the local authority said it was working with unions and health bodies to finalise arrangements. - Dundee schools will reopen to pupils on a phased basis from Wednesday 12 August. Full-time lessons begin from Monday 17 August. Monday 10 and Tuesday 11 will be in-service days for staff. - Schools will open from Wednesday 12 August with a "soft start". The focus will be on supporting transition pupils who are due to start P1 and S1. All pupils will return full time on Monday 17 August. - All pupils will return to school on Wednesday 12 August but there will be some phasing over the first week with some year groups attending for shorter periods each day. Monday 10 and Tuesday 11 will be in-service days for staff. - Children will begin returning to school on Wednesday 12 August. The nursery session will resume from Monday 17 August. Staff will return to school on Monday 10 August. - All children return on Wednesday 12 August and staff will return on Monday 10 August for in-service days. - A phased return will begin on Wednesday 12 August, with all pupils back full-time from Monday 17 August. There are in-service days on Monday 10 and Tuesday 11. - Phased return for pupils from Wednesday 12 August, with full-time attendance by 17 August. In-service days on Monday 10 August and Tuesday 11 August. - Nursery, primary-aged children and special schools will return on Wednesday 12 August. Secondary school pupils will have a staggered return between Wednesday 12 and Friday 14 August. There will be a full return from Monday 17 August. - Schools to open full time from Wednesday 12 August. Schools will have soft and staggered starts over the first three days with different year groups in. Arrangements will be communicated directly with families on their plans. - A phased return of pupils starts on Wednesday 12 August with staff returning for an in-service day on Tuesday 11 August. All schools are to be fully open by 18 August. -  P1 and S1 pupils and any children with additional support needs will return on Wednesday 12 August. The rest of the pupils will return over the next two days in a phased return. Schools will be open to all pupils from Monday 17 August. - Primary schools will return on Wednesday 12 August. Secondary schools will have returned full time by Tuesday 18 August at the very latest. Staff go back on Monday 10 August. - All pupils will return on Wednesday 12 August. Monday 10 and Tuesday 11 August are in-service days. - Pupils will begin returning to school from 12 August. All pupils will be back in school full time by Friday 14 August. - Schools will return from Wednesday 12 August with phasing for different year groups until Friday 14 August to allow pupils to familiarise themselves with new routines. All P1s and S1s will attend from 12 August. Tuesday 11 August will be an in-service day. - A phased return will begin on Wednesday 12 August, with all pupils in school on Monday 17 August. - A phased return will begin on Wednesday 12 August with all pupils back full time from Monday 17 August. Monday 10 and Tuesday 11 August are in-service days. - Pupils will start to return to school and nursery from Wednesday 12 August. Teachers and support staff will return from Monday 10 August. have been issued to parents. - All young people will return on Tuesday 11 August following an in-service day on Monday 10 August. Separate arrangements are in place for Jedburgh Grammar Campus, as is normal with the opening of any new school, with these details being provided directly to parents. - Phased return of children into schools between Tuesday 11 August and Friday 14 August. Full details will be issued to parents on Friday 31 July. - Pupils return Wednesday 12 August but the first week, up to and including Friday 14 August, this will be a soft start. All pupils will be back full time from Monday 17 August. Staff will return on Tuesday 11 August for an in-service day. - Pupils will return on a phased basis between Wednesday 12 and Friday 14 August (schools will let parents know which days children should attend between Wednesday and Friday). All children will be in full time from Monday 17 August. Tuesday 11 August is an in-service day. - Schools to reopen for pupils on a phased basis from Wednesday 12 August, with all pupils in school on Monday 17 August. Nurseries will open on the same date. Monday 10 and Tuesday 11 August are in-service days. - Phased return to begin Wednesday 12 August. All children will be in full time by Monday 17 August. Tuesday 11 August will be an in-service day. - Phased return from Wednesday 12 August, with all pupils in Friday 14 August onwards. Schools may stagger daily start and finish times to reduce congestion at the school gates, and individual schools will be in touch to confirm local arrangements for this and other services such as breakfast clubs. Tuesday 11 August will be in-service day. - Pupils will begin returning on Wednesday 12 August. There may be a phased return at some schools, but all pupils will be able to attend from Monday 17 August onwards. Tuesday 11 August is an in-service day. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.