Lord Sumption told Radio 4's World At One the use of drones to film walkers in the Peak District was "disgraceful" and "shamed our policing traditions". The force was last week. A spokesman said "much smaller numbers" visited beauty spots this weekend. Despite posts yesterday highlighting issues of people still visiting the despite government guidance, the message is still not getting through. have been out at beauty spots across the county, and this footage was captured at last night. Derbyshire Police deployed drones to monitor areas of the Peak District National Park after public outrage when . The force said the advice it issued to the public following the overcrowding "was and echoed what people in our communities were saying However, Lord Sumption said the efforts to dissuade people from "travelling to take exercise in the open country" were excessive. He argued that such behaviours "are not contrary to the regulations simply because ministers have said that they would prefer us not to". Lord Sumption continued: "The tradition of policing in this country is that policemen are citizens in uniform, they are not members of a disciplined hierarchy operating just at the government's command." "The police have no power to enforce ministers' preferences but only legal regulations which don't go anything like as far as the government's guidance," he said. "I have to say that the behaviour of Derbyshire Police in trying to shame people into using their undoubted right to travel to take exercise in the country and in the fells so people don't want to go there is frankly disgraceful. "This is what a police state is like. It's a state in which the government can issue orders or express preferences with no legal authority and the police will enforce ministers' wishes. "I have to say that most police forces have behaved in a thoroughly sensible and moderate fashion. Derbyshire Police have shamed our policing traditions." Responding to criticism of the dyeing of the water at the Blue Lagoon near Buxton, Derbyshire Police pointed out the "tactic" , adding it has received "high levels of local public support". The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.