NI Screen, which helps fund the series, estimates it has brought almost PS150m into the local economy since production began in 2010. The worldwide hit fantasy drama receives generous tax breaks to film in Northern Ireland. However, NI Screen insists the returns are high. Chief Executive Richard Williams said: "In terms of jobs and services here, we're just creeping up to PS150 million across the six seasons. "To be very clear about that, that is spent on people who live here and on services that are provided by people here." Tourism NI also believes the industry is getting a boost from Game of Thrones visitors who want to see landmarks from the show in reality. The marketing body is currently collating figures to establish just how much fans of the show spend in Northern Ireland. Judith Webb, Tourism NI's Experience Development Officer, said: "We can see already that businesses are growing on the back of the Game of Thrones series. "Two years ago, there were three operators promoting Game of Thrones experiences and now we've over 25 with more in the pipeline. "Those businesses are also reporting that business has doubled each year upon year which is just tremendous. "People come for Game of Thrones and stay for Northern Ireland." Like every TV show, Game of Thrones will eventually come to an end. So what happens when it wraps up? Richard Williams said: "There are people in China who don't know where Northern Ireland is, but they know Titanic and they know Game of Thrones, and we need to capitalise on that. "Game of Thrones will leave us with two really substantial legacies. "From my point of view, the most substantial one is the infrastructure - the film studios. "On the other side of it, there is a huge legacy piece in terms of the awareness Game of Thrones has driven for Northern Ireland and importantly right across the globe." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.