The 44-year-old blogger has millions of Russian followers on social media - many in their early 20s or younger - and managed to get some of his supporters elected to local councils in Siberia in 2020. He says Mr Putin's United Russia party is full of "crooks and thieves" and accuses the president of "sucking the blood out of Russia" through a "feudal state" concentrating power in the Kremlin. No sooner had Mr Navalny flown back to Moscow from Berlin on 17 January, after months recovering from a near-fatal nerve agent attack, than police arrested him. The next day a judge sentenced him to jail for 30 days, saying he had violated parole conditions. But jail has not intimidated him in the past, nor did it this time: in a social media clip from the courtroom he told his many followers that it was a fabricated case, aimed at silencing him. Then came a bigger counterblast to the authorities: his Anti-Corruption Foundation (FBK) released showing a luxury palace by the Black Sea which, according to Mr Navalny, rich businessmen had built for President Putin. The Kremlin dismissed the video as a "pseudo-investigation". Within days that video was viewed by more than 55m people, becoming a huge talking point on Russian social media. The next big test is whether Mr Navalny can still organise - from jail - big, unauthorised street protests against official corruption. The police have threatened to crack down hard, and have detained some of his top FBK assistants. For years he has led nationwide protests, but in 2018 he was barred from challenging Mr Putin at the ballot box, because he had a court conviction for embezzlement. His battle against Mr Putin, 68, is now intensely personal: he accuses the president of ordering state agents to poison him in August 2020. He collapsed on a flight over Siberia and was rushed to hospital in Omsk. That emergency landing saved his life. He went into a coma and a German-based charity persuaded Russian officials to allow him to be airlifted to Berlin for treatment. Eventually, on 2 September, the German government revealed that tests carried out by the military found " ". Novichok was the chemical weapon which nearly killed former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in Salisbury, England, in March 2018. A local woman died later from contact with Novichok. The Kremlin has denied any state role in the attack on Mr Navalny - whom Mr Putin always avoids naming in public - and disputes the Novichok allegation. But Mr Putin admitted that the state was keeping Mr Navalny under surveillance - it was justified, he alleged, because US spies were helping the blogger. Detective work by the investigative group Bellingcat pointed to long-running Federal Security Service (FSB) shadowing of Mr Navalny - despite the official denials. And Bellingcat named agents it suspected of poisoning Mr Navalny. In a dramatic sting, Mr Navalny then posed as a senior Russian security official on the phone and recorded a confession by one of the agents. In October, the EU imposed sanctions on six top Russian officials and a Russian chemical weapons research centre, accusing them of direct involvement in the poisoning of Mr Navalny. Russia There have been previous attacks on Mr Navalny. In 2019, he was diagnosed with contact dermatitis whilst in jail, with his doctor suggesting he might have been exposed to "some toxic agent". He has also twice been targeted with antiseptic green dye known as zelyonka and suffered chemical burns to an eye. His rise as a force in Russian politics began in 2008, when he started blogging about alleged malpractice and corruption at some of Russia's big state-controlled corporations. One of his tactics was to become a minority shareholder in major oil companies, banks and ministries, and to ask awkward questions about holes in state finances. While he has long been a thorn in the Kremlin's side, Mr Navalny also has critics among opposition groups, not least for what some see as his Russian nationalism. In a radio interview in 2014 he was asked about President Putin's annexation of Ukraine's Crimean peninsula. He said that despite Crimea being "seized" in violation of international law, "the reality is that Crimea is now part of Russia". "Crimea is ours," he said. On social media, he reaches out to a mainly young audience with sharp, punchy language, mocking the establishment loyal to President Putin. Christo Grozev, lead investigator at Bellingcat, said that it is difficult to know how many supporters Mr Navalny has in Russia. "First of all because there's no free polling in Russia, and second, because things have changed since the investigation and since his poisoning," . "Before that, a large part of the anti-establishment section of the population thought that Navalny was inefficient, or at worst even a puppet of the Kremlin, just a convenient opposition figure. Now that has changed. "Now it's seen that he's also extremely effective." Ahead of the 2011 parliamentary election, which he did not fight as a candidate, he urged his blog readers to vote for any party except United Russia, which he dubbed the "party of crooks and thieves". The phrase stuck. United Russia won, but with a much-reduced majority, and its victory was tarnished by widespread allegations of vote-rigging that prompted protests in Moscow and some other major cities. Mr Navalny was arrested and jailed for 15 days - and since then he has been arrested repeatedly. When he was briefly jailed in July 2013 for embezzlement in the city of Kirov, the five-year sentence was widely seen as political. He was unexpectedly allowed out of prison to campaign for the Moscow mayoral elections, in which he was runner-up with 27% of the vote, behind Putin ally Sergei Sobyanin. That was considered a dramatic success as he had no access to state TV, relying only on the internet and word of mouth. His Kirov conviction was eventually overturned by the Russian Supreme Court,  following a judgment by the European Court of Human Rights that he was not given a fair hearing at the first trial. . He called the judgment farcical, saying it was all an attempt to bar him from the 2018 election. Mr Navalny told the BBC the best thing Western states could do for justice in Russia was to crack down on "dirty money". "I want people involved in corruption and persecution of activists to be barred from entering these countries, to be denied visas." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.