Details of the plans were announced on Monday afternoon by the Northern Ireland Secretary. Images of 1972 Olympic gold medal winner Lady Mary Peters and 1995 Nobel Prize for Literature winner Seamus Heaney will feature in branding for Our Story in the Making: NI Beyond 100. Northern Ireland was created in May 1921 after the partition of Ireland. Speaking ahead of the official launch, Mr Lewis said: "2021 marks 100 years since the creation of Northern Ireland, which paved the way for the formation of the United Kingdom as we know it today. "We will use this opportunity to hear untold stories, to promote Northern Ireland on the world stage and to celebrate its people, culture, traditions and enterprise." On a visit to Belfast in August, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said Unionists believe the centenary should not just be marked, but celebrated. However, Sinn Fein takes a very different view, with Michelle O'Neill saying "there is nothing to celebrate". A consultative body, the NI Centenary Forum, It includes representatives from business, tourism, voluntary, community sectors and political parties but neither Sinn Fein nor the SDLP accepted invitations to attend. However, the Northern Ireland Office insists it contains "diverse perspectives" and that a "bold and ambitious" centenary programme has been created. Mr Lewis said: "The government is planning an exciting programme to promote Northern Ireland's potential across the UK, and also internationally. "Next year is the time to shine a light on what makes Northern Ireland so special, and to look forward to a bright future." Last month, the government announced the creation of a Shared History Fund, making PS1m available to support events connected to the centenary run by community, heritage, voluntary and other non-profit organisations. As well as official events to mark the centenary, other groups are making plans for 2021. The Orange Order is organising a special parade next summer. One thing is certain about the Northern Ireland centenary plan, it is not going to please everyone. Nobody expects an attempt to replicate the 50th anniversary when a festival was organised in Belfast, under the slogan Ulster 71 - come and join in the fun. Half a century later, it is clear a more balanced approach is required. Nonetheless, unionists have been urging the government to ensure there is a strong celebratory aspect to the centenary programme. A group of pro-union people have also come together to form their own Northern Ireland-wide centenary committee. They have a produced their own centenary logo and merchandise, including flags, mugs and cushions. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.