Police Scotland, the National Crime Agency (NCA) and forces across the UK also recovered huge amounts of drugs, cash, firearms and grenades. The arrests were made after the NCA penetrated a secret communications system used by criminals. The operation was said to have been "unprecedented" in scale and success. The Scottish arm of Operation Venetic, which involved hundreds of police officers, saw a total of 59 people arrested. Cocaine, heroin, cannabis, herbal cannabis and thousands of Etizolam tablets - also known as fake valium - worth PS25m were recovered, along with PS7m of laundered cash and a number of firearms, ammunition, explosives and industrial pill presses. Six stolen cars and a stolen motorcycle were also recovered. One raid in Kent led to the seizure of 28 million fake valium tablets that were destined for Scotland, while the operation also led to significant drug recoveries on the M74. The operation came after Encrochat - a secure mobile phone instant messaging service used exclusively by criminals worldwide - was cracked by an international law enforcement team. In Scotland alone, it generated 50 search warrants across the country. "Iconic" crime figures were among a total of 746 arrests made across Europe after messages on EncroChat were intercepted and decoded, with more than two tonnes of drugs, several dozen guns and PS54m in cash being seized. An estimated 60,000 people, among them up to 10,000 in Britain, subscribe to Encrochat, which the NCA said was used as a "criminal marketplace" to co-ordinate the supply of drugs across the world, and import weapons including assault rifles, sub-machine guns, shotguns, pistols and hand grenades. Gangs are also believed to use the handheld devices to plot attacks on rival groups, plan ways of enforcing drug debts and arrange for money to be laundered. Assistant Chief Constable Angela McLaren of Police Scotland hailed the significance of the operation, which was carried out during the Covid-19 lockdown. She added: "These intelligence-led proactive operations, which have been undertaken in partnership with the NCA, UK police forces and Border Force, have resulted in some of the largest seizures made by the service. "Keeping people safe and continuing to make the country a hostile environment for those who seek to bring misery to our communities through their organised criminality remains a priority for Police Scotland." Gerry McLean, the NCA's regional head of investigations for Scotland, said: "This piece of activity in Scotland and across the UK was unprecedented in scale. "It is, without doubt, the broadest and deepest ever operation into serious organised crime, with the people targeted at the top end of the criminal tree." He credited the strategy set by Scotland's Organised Crime Taskforce and a law enforcement partnership approach, which included input from the Crown Office, for the success of the operation. Mr McLean added: "By working together we have had tremendous success in penetrating organised criminal networks, seizing huge amounts of criminal cash, stopping firearms and drugs reaching our streets and protecting the people of Scotland." Jennifer Harrower, procurator fiscal for specialist casework, said those involved would also be targeted through and proceeds of crime legislation. The M74, which connects England and Scotland, has been the source of much of the activity. Other successes included: The operation also involved activity in Glasgow, Edinburgh, Aviemore, Blantyre, Larkhall, Whitburn, Johnstone, East Kilbride, Clydebank, Coatbridge, Renfrewshire and North Lanarkshire. Last year, the number of soared to 1,187, the highest since records began in 1996. The country's drug death rate was nearly three times that of the UK as a whole, and is higher than that reported for any other EU country. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.