A review into the "continued appropriateness" of the 1905 Buller statue recommended it was relocated due to the army general's connection to the British Empire. The authority is considering moving the statue to another site with information boards put up. The decision is subject to it being approved at further council meetings. Any relocation would need planning permission, which would involve public consultation. Health and safety concerns about its location outside Exeter College were also raised after a young man died after climbing the statue in . Dr Todd Gray, from the University of Exeter, said General Sir Redvers Buller was "a very straightforward wealthy elite empire man" who distinguished himself in the army in the Boer War in South Africa in the 1880s, before his competence as a leader was criticised. "It's part of that public humiliation, of him being thrown out of the army, that produces this statue which is one of the most iconic in the South West. "It is a tremendous statue," he said. He added that the "triumphant" nature and prominence of the statue outside Exeter College "annoys some people". The review said: "The current location is inappropriate because it is outside an educational establishment, which includes young people from diverse backgrounds." Exeter City Council said: "The Buller statue has become a cause of some public debate not only because of the man it portrays, but also because of the names carved on the plinth of colonial campaigns which sought to advance British imperialist interests in other countries. "The statue and plinth are Grade II listed, and as such, any relocation or changes made to it require formal Listed Building consent." The council added any planning decision would require widespread consultation and funding would have to be found. It has been estimated that relocation from outside Exeter College will cost a minimum of PS25,000. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.