It is to help enforce restrictions. Some of this is for marshals, but many areas still do not have any in place. The idea is for Covid marshals to advise and support members of the public and businesses on following social distancing rules. They cannot enforce the rules, but it is hoped they will take some pressure off police and council officers, who do have powers. Areas include: However, the plans have been criticised. Conservative MP Steve Baker, for example, has said it would "turn every public space in Britain into the equivalent of going through airport security". But Communities Secretary Robert Jenrick told BBC Breakfast it was "never the idea" to have people on the streets in every neighbourhood "wearing Covid marshal uniforms". The funding can be used to pay for Covid-19 secure marshals, or equivalents, and any associated costs. But local authorities can also choose to spend it on: , Manchester (PS453,047) and Sheffield (PS348,384). The lowest amounts are for the City of London, the Isles of Scilly and Rutland, which each receive PS13,000. Before the government funding announcement, the BBC contacted more than 120 councils to ask whether they were currently using marshals, had done so at some point during the pandemic, or planned to use them in the future. Just over a third have responded, with 70% saying they either had no marshals, no plans to introduce them, or were waiting for further guidance from central government. Luton, Bradford, Sandwell and Newcastle councils told the BBC they have deployed existing council staff as marshals, wardens or "city hosts". Cornwall's summer scheme is just ending, while Peterborough and Southend councils have used volunteers to provide marshalling for short periods and Portsmouth is considering them. In London, Hammersmith and Fulham, Harrow, and Kensington and Chelsea have at various points used existing staff as marshals or street ambassadors. Lewisham said it is gathering a group of volunteers to become "community champions" and Tower Hamlets said it will be recruiting two marshals. The government says marshals can either be existing members of council staff, new recruits or agency staff and it expects them to be paid. If local councils plan to use volunteers, the government says they should consider whether the roles and responsibilities are appropriate. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.