There are strict laws on what can stay open, as well as more guidance about what people can do. On 21 January, the , and has kept the current rules in place. BBC News NI explains what they mean, They primarily deal with setting out which businesses must stay closed. The tightest restrictions were in place for a week from 26 December, as non-essential retail closed and shops that can stay open shut by 20:00 GMT for the first week. On 5 January, the executive agreed that an order for people in Northern Ireland to stay at home - to stop the spread of Covid-19 - would become legally enforceable. It means such as for medical or food needs, exercise and work that cannot be done from home. The executive said it would reintroduce enforcement powers for the PSNI to order people to go home if they are engaging in prohibited activity. Gatherings have been reduced from 15 people to six and only from two households, which include children under 12 - although exemptions apply such as support bubbles. People are no longer allowed to meet with other households indoors or in private gardens, although similar exemptions apply there too. However, people can still take exercise outdoors with one person from another household. Yes - many pupils will not return to school until after the half-term break in mid-February, with nursery, primary and post-primary schools carrying out remote learning until then. However, special schools remain open as usual. The executive will meet next week to discuss whether to keep most schools shut until 5 March, in line with the rest of the lockdown restrictions. Vulnerable children and children of key workers have access to schools for supervised learning. Childcare settings are allowed to remain open and childminders can continue their services. Payments to parents of children who receive free school meals also continue, the Department of Education has confirmed. All GCSE, AS and A-level examinations in Northern Ireland scheduled for January, February, May and June . It is not yet clear what alternative awarding arrangements will be in place. All of this year's scheduled BTec and other vocational exams in Northern Ireland have been cancelled. Post-primary school transfer tests have also been halted with grammar schools deciding on their own selection criteria. Apart from the stay at home requirement, other restrictions on travel remain guidance. Justice Minister Naomi Long said there would be an advisory 10-mile limit in guidance to travel for exercise only. The executive that anyone travelling into Northern Ireland who plans to stay for at least 24 hours should self-isolate for 10 days. But people who routinely cross the border for essential purposes are not subject to restrictions. It has also defined further what it constitutes as "essential travel", including for work and health reasons. The Republic of Ireland , but will not introduce controls on the border with Northern Ireland. International travellers arriving in NI must also produce evidence of a negative Covid-19 test. This rule is also in place in the Republic of Ireland, and extends to passengers from Great Britain. The executive says it is urging people to "work from home and stay at home" during the lockdown, and only go to their workplace if they cannot work from home. But ministers have agreed to make it a requirement for all employers to conduct a risk assessment "where employees are required to work away from their home". Health Minister Robin Swann said people should behave as they did at the beginning of the first lockdown in March, cutting back on contact with others as much as possible. Non-essential retail have not been allowed to open since 26 December. There have been changes to what is defined as "essential retail", with homeware stores no longer falling under that definition. Click-and-collect retail is not allowed - except for supermarkets, which can still offer these services. Retail and services permitted to remain open include: Funeral homes, dentists, opticians, audiology services, chiropody, chiropractors, osteopaths can remain open, as will services relating to mental health. Professional services including solicitors can continue to operate as normal, as can those in the manufacturing and construction industry. Close-contact services such as hair and beauty salons have to cease operation for the duration of the lockdown, however, close contact for film and TV production can continue. Close contact services supporting medical, health or social care - including sports massage therapy - can also continue to operate. Hospitality is only allowed to offer takeaway and delivery services, while food and drink in motorway services, airports and harbour terminals remain open.  The use of outdoor seating is not permitted either on the premises or adjacent to them. Off-licences (including from bars) are permitted from 08:00 on Monday to Saturday, and from 10:00 on Sunday, until 20:00 on any day. Only in the most limited of circumstances, which include: The executive says will also continue to apply. These were announced several months ago, with the aim of helping people who have been cut off from friends and family. Two households can form a support bubble but they are limited to a maximum of 10 people, including children, at any one time. No sporting activity is allowed apart from elite sport, but it must be played without spectators. Gyms have to close for the duration of the six weeks, as will tennis courts, golf clubs, swimming pools, leisure centres, equestrian centres and motor sport. Hotels were allowed to remain open until 28 December to "accommodate" guests over the Christmas season. Now they are only allowed to operate in limited circumstances, such as to offer rooms to essential workers and "staff on the front line battling Covid". It also applies to people who are unable to return to their main address, those in emergency situations and vulnerable people. They can continue. But no more than 25 people are allowed to attend the services and no wedding receptions are allowed. No pre or post-funeral gatherings are permitted either and wakes cannot take place. Yes but only for private prayer. Northern Ireland's main church denominations have said services until 5 March. Weddings and funerals can continue, as will some baptisms, drive-in services and private prayer. The executive has said there is a mandatory requirement to wear face coverings when inside, and while entering and exiting places of worship. No. Leisure and entertainment businesses remain closed. These include: No. They fall under close-contact services and cannot operate. Health Minister Robin Swann said MoT centres would be permitted to remain open, but clarification will be issued on where vehicles can be washed ahead of an MoT, as car washes are required to close. They are only permitted in the most limited of circumstances. On 15 January, hospitals, hospices and care homes in an effort to curb the spread of Covid-19. There is no face-to-face visiting, however including end of life visits. The Department of Health says it will keep the measure under constant review. No. The executive says it is to shield, after it was paused in July. It has, however, advised people who are classed as clinically extremely vulnerable to no longer attend work, if they cannot work from home. Chief Medical Officer Dr Michael McBride said it was "not a return to shielding as we knew it", and encouraged vulnerable people to continue to go outside for exercise - but maintain social distancing. They have been mandatory on public transport since July and in shops since August, with a limited number of exemptions. Earlier in November, the executive announced it was extending compulsory wearing of face coverings to the following settings: Some of the measures are only guidance and there is no penalty for breaking guidance, but people in Northern Ireland caught breaching coronavirus regulations can face a minimum fine of PS200. There are also three other offences: Breaches of those laws can incur a fixed penalty notice of PS1,000 or up to PS10,000 on conviction. All of the current restrictions will be in place until at least 5 March and will be reviewed on 18 February. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.