Leon Briggs, 39, died in November 2013 after being detained under the Mental Health Act at Luton police station. Senior Coroner Emma Whitting gave the results of a post-mortem examination on the first day of Mr Briggs' inquest. Ms Whitting said his family should not have had to have waited seven years to find out how he died. "No family should have to wait the length of time Leon Briggs' family has done to learn how he died," the senior coroner for Bedfordshire said. Mr Briggs, from Luton, was being held under section 136 of the Mental Health Act following concerns about him "behaving unusually" on Marsh Road in the town, the inquest heard. Section 136 gives police the power to take a person of concern from a public place to a place of safety. The father-of-two was restrained and placed in a cell at the station at about 14:25 GMT. He became unconscious and was pronounced dead in hospital at about 16:15 on 4 November 2013. Mr Briggs' mother Margaret Briggs said the past seven years had been "a real nightmare". "We have waited so long for some answers about what happened to him on the day he died, and the wait has added to our pain. We feel that there is still no end," she said, in a statement read to the court. Ms Whitting said the inquest had been delayed due to "other investigations" into Mr Briggs' death taking place. "Amphetamine intoxication with prone restraint and prolonged struggling" was recorded as the primary cause of death. A secondary cause of death was given as coronary heart disease, the inquest heard. Ms Briggs said she had become worried about her son's mental state in the weeks before his death. He had previously told his mother people had been trying to kill him with lasers, jurors heard. Mr Briggs' sister Linda Briggs said, in a statement, that while her brother lived with her in the weeks before his death he seemed to be going through a "downward spiral". The inquest continues. eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.