Homes in Cardiff, Newport, Vale of Glamorgan and Monmouthshire have been flooded, two days before Christmas, South Wales fire service said. The heavy rain has also caused travel chaos with roads closed and train services cancelled across Wales. A Met Office weather warning covering all but north Wales counties is in force until early on Christmas Eve. Forecasters said up to 70mm (2.8in) of rain could fall throughout Wednesday into Thursday. Many homes and businesses caught up in the floods today in Newport. Could 2020 get any worse? [?] Newport council officials said they have been dealing with "significant levels of flooding". "The sheer volume of rain that has fallen over a short time has caused considerable flooding across the city. The teams are out responding as quickly as they can," said council officers. Cardiff council said teams were dealing with surface water flooding across the city and asked residents to help clear clear drains of debris or leaves. A spokesman said: "The rain has filled up the brooks and streams which are now higher than the outfalls. This means the drains can't empty and are consequently backing up." have been badly affected. Flooding on the line between Abergavenny and Pontypool has led to services traveling towards Shrewsbury from Newport being suspended. Some lines between Gloucester, Newport and Cardiff Central stations are closed due to flooding, with long delays on revised service. The railway at Llanharan, Rhondda Cynon Taf, and the Vale of Glamorgan line is also flooded, with delays and cancellations also on Valley Line services. Network Rail also reports disruption to services on the line to and from Milford Haven in Pembrokeshire. The M4 motorway has been closed for parts of the evening between Newport and Magor due to flooding, from junction 24 Coldra through to junction 23A. The M48 has also been shut at junction 23 of the M4, through to junction 2 at the A466 Wye Valley Link Road, in Chepstow, Monmouthshire. The A48 at Penhow in Newport, and at Ringland Way westbound were also closed by flood water. In Newport city centre, the A4042 is shut, and also at Usk Road northbound, at Pontypool, Torfaen. Gwent Police said Crickhowell Lane in Gilwern, Monmouthshire, was blocked due to flooding. In Cardiff, the A4050 Port Road at Culverhouse Cross has also been flooded and shut. There are 9 in force across south-east Wales. They include: Two flood warnings have been issued by Natural Resources Wales for the Lower Dee Valley from Llangollen to Trevalyn Meadows, Wrexham and the river Ritec at Tenby, Pembrokeshire. There were 19 flood alerts  - meaning flooding is possible and people should be prepared - issued throughout Wednesday. Welsh Water said it had been monitoring the weather forecast over the past few days and "have taken additional steps to prepare for heavy rainfall to minimise the impact on services to customers". "Our teams across the south east of Wales are busy responding to calls from customers reporting flooding," said an official. On Saturday, parts of after the River Towy burst its banks and there was a landslip at Wattstown in Rhondda Cynon Taf following heavy rain. The Met Office warned the heavy rain would be accompanied by strong winds during Wednesday evening and overnight into Thursday. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.