Serious concerns raised by the family of a former Tawel Fan patient. The Donna Ockenden - a senior NHS executive and midwifery expert - commissioned by the health board to investigate "serious allegations". Health board receives Ockenden's report and passes it on to North Wales Police. The makes claims about the treatment of elderly patients at Tawel Fan and Police investigation ends and it is confirmed there will be no criminal prosecutions. Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board (BCUHB) and apologises for "inexcusable and unacceptable" treatment. Eight members of nursing staff are suspended on full pay. A "significant" number also transferred to other roles while others, including managers, "stood down". The health board resumes its own disciplinary action. A health inspection body says patients at a north Wales mental health unit were failed. Healthcare Inspectorate Wales (HIW) said scrutiny at Tawel Fan . The health board is put into special measures by Welsh Government. It is the first health board in Wales to be subject to the highest level supervision and intervention. . BCUHB chief executive Trevor Purt steps aside and the Welsh Government brings in interim boss Simon Dean. , one woman says she was "extremely disappointed, angry that my husband and others were treated in such a deplorable way by people who call themselves nurses". The health secretary establishes an independent oversight panel to provide assurance on the integrity of the Health and Social Care Advisory Service (Hascas) and Ockenden reviews. New BCUHB chief executive Gary Doherty tells BBC Wales Investigators confirm they are examining Inspectors highlight about Ablett Unit, of which Tawel Fan was a part, at Glan Clwyd hospital. An independent report concludes there was , but accepts there were failings. It said the 2015 report was based on evidence that was incomplete, misinterpreted, taken out of context, based on misleading information and misunderstood. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.