The co-owner of Bristol restaurant Cloak and Dagger, Sebastian Merry said: "Whatever the tier, government furlough is not enough." The restaurant could face closure in the next week due to financial difficulties faced during the pandemic. The government announced Bristol would be dropping to . On Tuesday, the Office for National Statistics revealed hospitality was the sector hit hardest by coronavirus, accounting for Mr Merry said: "To be honest, dropping to tier 2 doesn't matter because it will make minimal difference to us and we will still be at a loss." "People are still hesitant to go out and get takeaways and with Christmas coming up they're cooking more food at home," Mr Merry added. "What matters is the need for government support because the furlough is not enough and the taxes we have to pay are too much, even with our doors closed." As Bristol, North Somerset and South Gloucestershire went into tier three at the end of November, at the effect the restrictions would have on their future. Bristol Food Union director Aine Morris said food businesses need "clear guidance" and "more financial support". "Nobody is making a fraction of the sales they should be in December, regardless of if we were in tier two or three," she said. "We can't continue to have a situation where the government provides the hospitality sector less than 48 hours notice of a tier change. "I had chefs calling me on Wednesday morning absolutely furious that the tier restrictions review has been postponed again." The co-director of Bristol property developers Fear Group, Stephen Fear said: "Many small business owners are facing Armageddon." "It is not fair or equitable that the private sector should carry the economic fall-out of the pandemic in the way it has. "If the government continues asking small businesses to close their doors they must replace the lost revenue or these businesses will simply not be there when all this is over." Bristol mayor Marvin Rees thanked everyone in the city "for playing their part to get the rates of infection down". He said: "The next few weeks are crucial so we don't see another significant rise in cases, so please be cautious and still limit who you see and follow the guidelines." Chancellor Rishi Sunak has said the government has provided PS280bn of support, including protecting more than 9m jobs through the furlough scheme and offering loans, grants and tax cuts to business. He added: "But we know that, sadly, many people are already facing unemployment. That's why our Plan for Jobs is also helping to create new jobs, including through our PS2bn Kickstart scheme and expanded apprenticeships and traineeships." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.