The plane was on a training exercise when it crashed on Beamsley Beacon near Ilkley in low cloud on 5 November 1945. One of the survivors managed to walk to a nearby farm to call for help, and he and three others were rescued. Sam White walked to the site to lay a wreath after lockdown forced him to cancel plans for a memorial event. He hopes the larger scale event can take place when restrictions have been eased. The 28-year-old, who lives in Langbar at the foot of Beamsley Beacon, was instrumental in the installation of a memorial plaque to the airmen, installed on a trig point at Beamsley in 2015. He became interested in the crash after reading about other wartime crashes in the local area, in nearby Ilkley and Addingham, West Yorkshire. "The other ones had plaques and this one didn't, so I thought I'd do something about that," he said. The men killed were from 429 Squadron from the Royal Canadian Air Force (RCAF), based at RAF Leeming in Northallerton, a squadron Mr White has since forged links with on a visit to Canada in 2017. Those who died were: The survivors were: Mr White had planned a memorial with members of the RAF and RCAF present, including readings about the men and a blessing from the chaplain of the Air Cadet Squadron in Ilkley. He said: "The sad thing is, at the time of the crash, the war was over. They were probably weeks away from heading back home. "It would have been such a milestone anniversary, it's such a shame. "It's deflating with all the hard work that's gone into it, but as soon as Covid hit in March, I knew things weren't looking great, and in the summer I knew it wasn't going to go ahead." The four men who died were buried in Harrogate's Stonefall Cemetery, which has since planted maple trees to mark the number of Canadian servicemen buried there. yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.