Change to deliver major NHS and care improvement is urgently required - and at a much faster pace, they said. New ways of caring for older people should be a priority because of an ageing population, the experts added. The interim report was commissioned by the Welsh Government. Detailed findings are expected later this year. Dr Ruth Hussey, the former chief medical officer for Wales, is chairing the panel of nine experts from across the health and social care field. It was set up by Health Secretary Vaughan Gething last November, with cross-party support, to look at how health and social care needs to be delivered in future. It says the case for change is "compelling" but we need to "speed up" how the NHS adapts to changing needs and how it can operate in a more joined-up way. Among the findings are: The core of the challenge is our changing and ageing population. Wales has the fastest growing proportion of older people in the UK - by 2039 there will be 44% more people aged over 65 compared to 2014. The proportion of people living beyond 80 is also growing. This is all likely to mean a much greater demand for care. Over the same period there is expected to be a 5% relative decrease in the number of working age adults - which could mean less money will be collected in tax and a smaller pool from which to draw the future health and social care workforce. One of the panel, Prof Sir Mansel Aylward, chair of the Bevan Commission, said: "The demographic time bomb has gone off - what I'm worried about are the salvos coming in over the next few years which could make it worse." He said he believes efficiencies were still possible but facilities and services were being stretched and change was necessary. The panel will now work on putting together examples of what is already working well in practice and which can be applied across Wales. Work in Bridgend has already caught its eye. Over the last two years, there has been very close working between the health board, council social services and the private and voluntary sectors - aimed at keeping as many elderly people out of hospital as possible. It includes a tele-care scheme, which provides various alarms and detectors in 2,000 homes, connected to care support. Council leader Huw David believes it can actually save money further down the line. "We've seen a steady decline in over-70s admitted to hospital in Bridgend - keeping people in their own homes when it's safe and in their interests," he said. Dr Hussey said she believes there is a "real appetite" for change and they will learn lessons from within local communities and internationally. Also on the panel is Prof Don Berwick, a leading American healthcare administrator in the Obama presidency. He said it was about better use of resources and Wales' size puts it in a position to benefit. "If you really want to create better results for the population then you have to change," he told BBC Wales. "Now that is uncomfortable and takes leaders who can help everyone get into the mode of learning and the excitement as we develop new systems. "But if we keep on doing what we're doing, we will get the same results and we can do better than that." A final report outlining more detailed recommendations is expected to be completed by the the end of the year, which according to the panel must lead to "prompt and tangible action", in contrast, it suggests, to previous reviews. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.