Here are just a few of the striking outfits that were on display. Nominees this year included Jodie Comer, who was up for best actress in a drama series for Killing Eve, and Andrew Scott, who was up for a supporting actor prize for playing the Priest in Fleabag. Neither won, though there was better fortune for Phoebe Waller-Bridge. The British writer and actress, who is both the creator and executive producer of Killing Eve and the creator, writer and star of Fleabag, won two prizes for the latter show. Few celebrities rock a red carpet like Billy Porter, who was nominated for best actor in a drama series for his work in the second series of Pose. The US actor and Broadway star said he would be swearing off red wine, spaghetti and make-up for the duration of the ceremony, lest they sully his pristine outfit. White was also the choice of Gillian Anderson, Reese Witherspoon and Margot Robbie, though the latter did pair her white trousers with a multi-coloured top. Olivia Colman and Dame Helen Mirren - who have both won Golden Globes for playing British queens - chose regal shades of red for this year's ceremony. The pair were nominated again this year, and again for royal roles - The Queen in The Crown in Colman's case (which she went on to win best drama actress for), and Catherine the Great in Dame Helen's. Three of this year's best actress nominees - Kirsten Dunst, Cynthia Erivo and Joey King - all chose bold gowns for their red carpet appearances. Dunst was up for best actress in a television series (musical or comedy) for On Becoming a God in Central Florida. Erivo and King, meanwhile, were nominated for playing real people - Harriet Tubman in the film Harriet in Erivo's case, and Gypsy Rose Blanchard in TV drama The Act in King's. Gwyneth Paltrow, Taylor Swift and Charlize Theron also chose eye-catching couture as they arrived at the Beverly Hilton Hotel. Ana De Armas and Beanie Feldstein - both of whom were up for best actress in a musical or comedy film for Knives Out and Booksmart respectively - plumped for more sombre colours, as did Glenn Close - last year's best actress in a drama film winner. Sir Elton John and David Furnish attended the event to see if the former's biopic Rocketman would win any of the three awards for which it has been nominated. It ended up triumphing in two categories - best song and best actor for Taron Egerton Globe nominees Sacha Baron Cohen, Adam Driver and Kit Harington also arrived with their respective partners - Isla Fisher, Joanne Tucker and Rose Leslie respectively. Ricky Gervais was one of the first stars to arrive with partner Jane Fallon on his arm. The British comic said his Christmas had been ruined by the need to write jokes for his fifth stint as Golden Globes host. And we'll end on a pair of Jennifers - Jennifer Aniston, nominated for best actress in a drama series for The Morning Show, and Jennifer Lopez, whose work in Hustlers has won her a nod for best supporting film actress. Take a bow, J-Lo. (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.