Family Fund said it was having "a lasting negative impact" on the children and their families' mental wellbeing and their finances. One Doncaster family that is helped by the charity said it felt like their family unit "was falling apart". The government said it had given the Family Fund more than PS37m this year. , conducted by the York-based charity, found up to 69% of the families contacted were "still going without" educational psychologists and various different therapies including speech and language. The charity, which provides grants to families with disabled and seriously ill children via government funds and private donations, said families were also suffering from lost income and rising debt. Five-year-old Jaxon, from Doncaster, has autism and global developmental delay. His parents, John Haddock and Annemarie Maddison, received money from the charity to buy a tablet for their son, as well as a washing machine and dryer. But they said they desperately needed support for his behaviour and mental health. "During lockdown Jaxon was setback immensely," said Mr Haddock. "He does become quite aggressive. He will self harm as well: pull his own hair, bite himself. He does scratch himself." Ms Madison said: "We needed some sort of physical intervention or some sort of behavioural help or management even, or an online course. Something that could have got us through and made it a little bit easier. But there was nothing." Mr Haddock said: "I found it difficult, but I had to bury my feelings to try and be a rock for everybody. "The family unit did feel like it was falling apart." Cheryl Ward, chief executive of Family Fund, said: "What concerns us most, and the worrying situation, is families have struggled through the first wave of coronavirus. "As we approach a second wave we need to ensure that when looking at services and considering financial support, that families with disabled children are considered and prioritised." A Department for Education spokesperson said: "Throughout the pandemic we have worked with schools and councils to help support children with Special Educational Needs and Disabilities (SEND), including by asking schools to stay open to support those with Education, Health and Care Plans. "We've provided the Family Fund with more than PS37m this year to help over 75,000 families on low incomes raising disabled or seriously ill children and young people." Local authorities would get PS780m more this year to support those with the most complex needs, it added. yorkslincs.news@bbc.co.uk The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.