- Irish monks settle on the islands. - Norwegian farmers arrive. - Christianity introduced under the king of Norway's rule. - Islands become part of the Kingdom of Norway. - Along with Norway, the Faroe Islands become part of the Kingdom of Denmark. - Faroe Islands are presented to the von Gabel family. Their oppressive feudal rule ends in 1709 when the Faroes come under direct Danish rule. - Faroe Islands become a Danish county. - Under the Danish constitution the Faroes are given representation in both houses of the Danish parliament. - Danish trade monopoly ends. - Purchase of the first seafaring fishing vessel heralds the growth of the islands' main economic activity. - First political parties are formed, representing divisions over home-rule issue. - World War II: British forces occupy the Faroes while Denmark is under German occupation. - Narrow vote for secession from Denmark in referendum. Danish king dissolves Faroese parliament. - Home rule act is passed. The islands become an autonomous, self-governing region of the Kingdom of Denmark. - Territory opts not to join the European Community with Denmark. - Economic crisis, amid falling fish prices and depleted stocks. Unemployment and emigration rise. March - Planned referendum on independence is cancelled after Denmark says a pro-independence result would lead to a halt in annual subsidies. April - Election result reveals split over independence issue, with no clear mandate for separation from Denmark. December - Pro-independence party pulls out of coalition. After early elections in January 2004 a three-party coalition is formed. September - The islands start importing whalemeat from Iceland, despite a ban on the trade under the UN's Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES). January - Parliamentary elections. New governing coalition formed. Joannes Eidesgaard continues as premier. September - Kaj Leo Johannesen of the Union Party becomes prime minister and forms new coalition government after the collapse of the coalition led by Joannes Eidesgaard. October - Centre right Union and People's parties increase their share of the vote in parliamentary elections. August - EU bans imports of herring and mackerel from the Faroe Islands after the islands decide to treble their herring quota, a move the EU says jeopardises fish stocks. August - EU lifts its ban on herring and mackerel imports after the Faroe Islands lowers its allowable herring catch size. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.