All secondary schools in Wales have and most primaries are closing early as Covid cases rise. Schools must remain open for children in Year 6 and below, children of key workers or those who are vulnerable. The Welsh Government said the NAHT had misunderstood as councils, not schools, were required to provide the service. "The direction we have issued requires local authorities, not individual schools, to provide education for the children of critical workers and vulnerable children in Year 6 and below," it said in a statement. The regulations say local authorities are obliged to make arrangements for those pupil to attend a school between 08:30 and 16:00 GMT. "Any failure by the local authority to comply with this direction is enforceable by an application for injunction by the Welsh ministers to the high court or county court, without notice," it says. Laura Doel, director of NAHT Cymru, said the union "deplored" the threat of legal action. "The government's lack of understanding of the reality on the ground has been staggering," she said. "Publicly, ministers express their thanks to school leaders, whilst behind the scenes they are sending intimidating and unnecessary legal letters. "We object to these double-standards in the strongest terms. "Ministers have an awful lot of work to do to repair the damage that has been done to their relationship with the teaching profession." The Welsh Government added: "We have been clear with local authorities that we would be introducing measures to ensure children of critical workers and vulnerable children are able to attend school prior to Christmas. "Given the current pressure on our health service, it is essential that NHS staff who are also parents of school-age children are supported in continuing their life-saving work as scheduled at this challenging time." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.