LBC radio saying Wales will be placed into lockdown-equivalent rules after Christmas. Andrew RT Davies said first minister Mark Drakeford should make an "urgent statement". The Welsh Government said ministers are keeping all measures under review. Rules will be relaxed for five days during the Christmas period, 23-27 December, across the UK to allow three households to meet. However ministers have disclosed discussions about further restrictions after Christmas have already taken place. The number of patients in Welsh hospitals is , and case rates in more than half of council areas in Wales reached their during the pandemic. Plaid Cymru Adam Price claimed the Welsh Government "seems to have lost its grip on the situation". Welsh Conservative health spokesman Mr Davies said demanded "a full and frank disclosure" from the Welsh Government's plans to control the rise. LBC said an 'industry source' told them it is likely Wales would go into lockdown-equivalent restrictions from 28 December. But the broadcaster also the Welsh Government was considering using a system of tiers - similar to that seen in England - but that a final decision had not been made. It comes after the Welsh Government announced all secondary schools and further education colleges in Wales will move classes online . Plaid's Adam Price called for a regional approach if a tiered system is to be introduced, "where local restrictions reflect local virus transmission levels". "Rather than blaming the public, ministers should be asking themselves where they've gone wrong," he said. "With furlough being reviewed in January, the Welsh Government must give urgent assurances that there will be further financial support if the hospitality sector has to close completely for a period of time." A spokeswoman said the public has a "key role" to play in limiting the spread of the virus. "How we all act - and the choices we all make over the coming days and weeks - will define the course of this virus," she said. "We have recently introduced new restrictions to control the spread of the virus, but this will take some time to have an impact. "Ministers keep all measures under review, including whether additional actions are needed to help further control the spread of the virus. "However, the Welsh Government cannot control the spread of the virus alone. The people of Wales have a key role to play in stopping the virus from spreading." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.