A shortage of shipping containers, rising costs, and congestion at ports are holding back imports from China. A shortage of shipping containers, rising costs, and congestion at ports are holding back imports from China. Businesses say importing goods to the UK is now so difficult, higher costs will be passed on to consumers. As the African nation continues to ban the import of used US clothes, China takes advantage. Some experts believe we may have hit "peak gold" production in our pursuit of the precious metal. The government plans to create an internal border to prevent gridlock on the county's motorways. Winemakers around the world say that climate change's impact is increasing. The UK this week pursues simultaneous talks with Japan, the US and EU to secure its post-Brexit future. A shortage of shipping containers, rising costs, and congestion at ports are holding back imports from China. Businesses say importing goods to the UK is now so difficult, higher costs will be passed on to consumers. As the African nation continues to ban the import of used US clothes, China takes advantage. Some experts believe we may have hit "peak gold" production in our pursuit of the precious metal. The government plans to create an internal border to prevent gridlock on the county's motorways. Winemakers around the world say that climate change's impact is increasing. The UK this week pursues simultaneous talks with Japan, the US and EU to secure its post-Brexit future. Businesses say importing goods to the UK is now so difficult, higher costs will be passed on to consumers. As the African nation continues to ban the import of used US clothes, China takes advantage. Some experts believe we may have hit "peak gold" production in our pursuit of the precious metal. By Jonathan Josephs & Mary-Ann Russon Business reporters, BBC News Crew are asking to be designated 'key workers' so they can go home without risking public health. By Lucy Hooker Business reporter, BBC News It's not just shoppers facing surprise costs when EU parcels arrive, but what is behind the charges? By Daniel Thomas Business reporter, BBC News Firms say they have been advised by officials to set up EU hubs, but the government says it is not policy. By Vivienne Nunis Business reporter, BBC News A shortage of shipping containers, rising costs, and congestion at ports are holding back imports from China. The country agreed to buy $200bn worth of US goods in a trade agreement signed one year ago. By Lora Jones, Catherine Snowdon & Howard Mustoe BBC business reporters Shoppers buying items from Europe now have to pay customs or VAT charges on those above a certain value. Peter Mwangangi BBC News Kenya's President Uhuru Kenyatta says the country is determined to sign a new trade deal with
the US despite a change in US president. The two countries initiated trade negotiations in July 2020. But in November, the US voted Republican President Donald Trump out of office and his successor, Democrat Joe Biden, has just been inaugurated as president. The deal, if signed, will
be the first between the US and a sub-Saharan African country and will replace
the African Growth
and Opportunity Act (Agoa) which allows Kenyan exports into the US without paying duties, or taxes. Agoa is set to expire in
2025. Concerns have been raised that an agreement between the two would undermine existing trade protocols with regional bodies such as the East African Community. It remains
unclear whether Mr Biden's administration will continue with the bilateral talks
or will instead forge a multilateral trade approach such as with the Africa
Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). But observers expect the US's new administration to adopt a new policy that will be more beneficial towards African countries compared to that of "America First" under Mr Trump. Kenya
exported goods worth more than $600m (PS440m) to the US in 2019, while the US exported goods worth over $400m to Kenya. It comes as industry workers warn their livelihoods are at risk due to Brexit border problems. By Faisal Islam Economics editor US tariffs on Scotch whisky and cashmere remain in place as UK fails to reach deal with Washington. By Dharshini David Global trade correspondent, BBC News The government is being scrutinised over trade deals with countries with poor human rights records. By Simon Jack Business editor Post-Brexit and with finances stretched, the government is looking at how deregulation can help firms. By John Campbell BBC News NI Economics & Business Editor The package from England had a label, which is normally used for sending goods internationally. By Enda McClafferty BBC News NI political editor How the relationship between the Democratic Unionist Party and Conservatives has changed. By Simon Jack Business editor Even experienced exporters are struggling with the system, says the British Meat Processor Association. By Anthony Reuben BBC Reality Check Rules of origin are a key part of the UK's trade deal with the EU. What are they? By Reality Check team BBC News Confiscated ham sandwiches, delayed Scottish salmon and other fallout from the new regime. By Jayne McCormack BBC News NI Political Reporter The DUP's Ian Paisley says the Irish Sea border is having "severe economic consequences". By John Campbell BBC News NI Economics & Business Editor The government is urged to tackle the issues some companies are facing with the new Irish Sea border. By John Campbell & Conor Macauley BBC News NI Cabinet Office Minister Michael Gove says "work is ongoing" to improve trade from GB to NI. Criticism of new Brexit trade rules is growing as firms warn of more bureaucracy, higher costs and delays. Email us at Send an SMS or MMS to Follow