The Bishop of Derry said on Sunday that business interests But Foyle College principal Patrick Allen described that as " a complete red herring". He said the test remains the fairest way of allocating grammar places. "This is about pupil choice, about parental choice. "It is as much about those as it is about school selecting pupils, to use an emotive term," Mr Allen told . The transfer test has long been a controversial issue in Northern Ireland and there has been There have been calls for the AQE to , with many pupils facing a prolonged period of learning from home amid the tightening of the Covid-19 lockdown. A single Association for Quality Education (AQE) test Parents pay a fee of PS55 for their child to take the AQE test. A small number of grammar schools that would typically use the test to select their pupils for the following academic year have since decided not to proceed with it in 2021. Bishop McKeown told the BBC's Sunday Politics Northern Ireland programme: "The public education system has to be focused on doing the best for the largest number of people. "It can end up ceasing to be primarily a test of academic ability and more become a measure of those who are financially able. "I hope our politicians could grapple with that reality - when business enters education we have to ask questions. "When business becomes a major element in educational decisions I think, perhaps, we've lost the point". Mr Allen said there had been a "huge amount of soul searching since November, all of this school year, on what is the right and best thing to do". He said decisions have not been "taken lightly or easily". "At the moment the board of governors of Foyle continue to believe the fairest way of allocating our places for next year is to have some sort of indication of ability," Mr Allen said. about whether the executive should intervene in the AQE's decision to proceed. Sinn Fein, the SDLP and the Alliance Party - which all oppose academic selection - argued that the test should not take place due to the pandemic. But the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) said it supported the right for schools to select their pupils. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.