The body talked of "significant challenges" and said "there should be no further" plans in a letter to Grant Shapps, the transport secretary. The idea of a 25-mile (40km) Trans-Pennine Tunnel . The distance between Manchester and Sheffield is about 40 miles (64km) but TfN said "road connectivity is poor". Peter Molyneux, of TfN, said: "The existing road link across the Pennines is notoriously below par.  It's regularly congested, and is closed for an average of 70 days a year due to bad weather. "Whilst a tunnelled dual carriageway may not be the answer, we've expressed our view to government that more work should be done to look at environmentally sustainable solutions for both road and rail across the Pennines." A report by Highways England in 2020 found the proposed dual-carriageway tunnel would pass through the "highest and most difficult terrain" but could between the two cities. The route would cost up to PS12bn to complete, it added. Plans could still be considered for a shorter single-bore tunnel if financially viable, the TfN letter to Mr Shapps said. There was also "still a strong case for improving strategic connectivity between Manchester and Sheffield" and there should be improvements to the A628 Woodhead Pass and A616, it added. Dan Jarvis, Mayor of the Sheffield City Region, said: "If the government are serious about levelling up, they must work with us to address this challenge." The government must have a sustainable solution to congestion and improve the route's resilience during bad weather for it to benefit "the wider North",  he said. Any improvement should not be a choice between trans-Pennine rail or road links as both were needed, Mr Jarvis added. A Department for Transport (DfT) spokesperson said: "We are focused on investing billions to level-up infrastructure across the north. "We have committed PS1bn to dual the A66 which will transform travel across the northern Pennines and are continuing to work with northern leaders to identify their priorities." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.