The body representing more than 90 Welsh choirs said social distancing rules and fears about members' safety posed an "existential threat". Beaufort Male Choir has begun rehearsing outdoors in a rugby club stand to ensure their safety. But the choir's secretary said restrictions needed to be relaxed to allow safe rehearsals indoors. Male voice choirs have long been symbolic of Wales' cultural heritage and epitomise its reputation as a land of song. Since lockdown was announced in March, all choirs have had their rehearsals and concerts cancelled. It has led to a loss of income for some, but all have missed the social activity that came with weekly rehearsals and tours. Chris Evans is secretary of the Beaufort Male Choir in Ebbw Vale and is also secretary of the Welsh Association of Male Choirs (WAMC). He said: "It's an existential issue for some. One, the demographics in choirs and in male choirs are quite old. So it means that there will be choristers who don't want to sing again. "And if you're only a small choir and 50% of you decide they don't want to do it again, that means that existence is a challenge." He added some choirs were struggling for venues in which to practise, and choirs had lost money over the summer. Beaufort Male Choir rehearsed last week for the first time since March in the stand at Ebbw Vale RFC, so the men could socially distance. During lockdown the choir had been unable to rehearse, but members had been practising at home with recorded instructional videos from its musical director. Mr Evans said rehearsals at the rugby ground had been an emotional reunion: The first song that they sang last week was [the Welsh hymn] Gwahoddiad. "I wasn't singing because I was running the mask store, but it brought tears to the eyes... it was brilliant to sing again." The Welsh Association of Male Choirs surveyed its members about the pandemic and its report said: President of Beaufort Male Choir, Labour's Member of the Senedd for Blaenau Gwent Alun Davies, wants better guidance on rehearsals that would enable safe indoor practice sessions over the winter. "There is nobody here who wants to break rules, and there is nobody here who wants to see people become ill as a consequence of what I am suggesting. "But what we are looking at is having an element of normality that will be especially important as we face a winter, and those long dark cold months." Despite concerns for the future, the WMAC said 50% of the choirs it surveyed had begun booking concerts for 2021. In the meantime, it said efforts were ongoing to keep in touch with members and encourage virtual rehearsals. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.