The controversial night curfew is aimed at curbing the soaring coronavirus infection rate in France, which is one of Europe's coronavirus hotspots. The full curfew begins on Saturday, from 21:00 to 06:00 every night. The Paris region and eight other cities are affected, including Marseille, Lyon, Lille and Toulouse. About 20 million French people are covered by it, but mayors in some towns - notably Le Touquet and Creil in the north - have also announced curfews to prevent a knock-on effect, as frustrated revellers seek somewhere else to meet. Le Touquet is on the coast west of Lille, while Creil lies just north of Paris and was badly hit by the first Covid wave in March. French BFMTV said La Boite aux Lettres, a restaurant in Paris's popular Montmartre district, had received a flood of bookings for Friday evening. The manager, Antonin Prion, said: "I hope this [curfew] has an impact and isn't in vain, because this is really doing us damage." There have been bitter complaints from restaurant owners, already suffering after the two-month lockdown in spring, when the pandemic swept through Europe. "I've never seen anything like this in the 50 years I've been here," said Stain Roman, a restaurateur in Marseille, quoted by AFP news agency. Currently the government advises them to restrict each table to six people maximum. They are also observing strict hygiene rules and collecting customers' contact details for track-and-trace. The curfew will hurt many other workers, besides those in the hospitality and leisure sectors. Agathe, a student in Montpellier in the south, said she was dreading "the cancellation of all my babysitting evenings". "I'll lose all that money, so I hope this doesn't carry on for a long time." Coronavirus has killed more than 32,000 people in France - among the highest death tolls in Europe. *Deaths per 100,000 people Please update your browser to see full interactive This information is regularly updated but may not reflect the latest totals for each country. ** The past data for new cases is a three day rolling average. Due to revisions in the number of cases, an average cannot be calculated for this date. Source: Johns Hopkins University, national public health agencies and UN population data Figures last updated: 18 January 2021, 08:42 GMT The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.