Six productions have been filmed inside the headquarters in Cathays Park, Cardiff since 2012, according to a freedom of information publication. Fictional works filmed included Doctor Who, Casualty and His Dark Materials. More than 2,600 civil servants work at the complex. But after they have left for home, parts of the buildings - which date from the 1930s - have been turned over to production crews. The Welsh Government started keeping records in 2012 and a freedom of information request revealed: Another reason for the choice of government buildings is the cost. Each production was charged a PS1 fee by the Welsh Government for a licence to film on its premises, except His Dark Materials which filmed in two stints and therefore paid for two licences. Any other costs incurred by the Welsh Government in supporting the filming activity - for example additional security and maintenance services - were also directly recovered. This amounted to PS26,271. The Welsh Government said legal conditions and restrictive covenants on the offices meant they could not be used for the purpose of making a profit. "On this basis, the Welsh Government only seeks to recover costs incurred as part of the filming licence agreement." Only one filming request has been declined since 2012. In September last year, a request for an extra day's filming for His Dark Materials was rejected because it was too short notice and there was no way of organising the filming "from a security and health and safety perspective". With 2,611 Welsh Government staff over the two buildings, filming is only done outside working hours so business is uninterrupted. The old Welsh Office building in Cathays Park dates from the mid 1930s and is a Grade II-listed building. It is joined by a bridge to the newer building, which was constructed in 1979. The Welsh Academy Encyclopaedia of Wales described the second building, two decades before devolution, as "a symbol of closed inaccessible government.... bureaucracy under siege". John Davies, however, described Cathays Park as a "splendid headquarters" in his History of Wales. It will also now have a small footnote in the history of TV drama. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.