Belfast City Council's chief executive, Suzanne Wylie, said it was the "most critical issue" needing to be resolved. Most of Northern Ireland's 11 councils at the onset of the pandemic. NI's Department of Finance said it had raised the issue with the Treasury. The furlough scheme, , allowed employers to temporarily lay off staff during the crisis, while the government initially paid 80% of their salaries up to PS2,500 a month. This percentage began to taper out in August, with employers making more salary contributions. The will see workers get three-quarters of their normal salaries for six months, but it will only apply to staff who can work at least a third of their usual hours. Employers will pay staff for the hours they work. For the hours employees cannot work, the government and the employer will each cover one third of the lost pay. Although councils have continued to operate some essential services during the pandemic, they had to place on hold many of their operations, including leisure and tourism. Belfast City Council has told BBC News NI it placed 308 full-time and part-time staff on furlough at the beginning of the scheme, and that 120 staff remained on furlough. Speaking to Stormont's Department for Communities committee, Ms Wylie said she was concerned that if those staff could not join the new scheme, it could mean further job losses. "When furlough ends, we have still got a significant number of staff on furlough that have no job to go back to at this point in time because that particular part of the organisation is not running because it's income-generating and it's not open," she said. "So what on earth do we do in that particular situation because we don't want to make people redundant? "It's a really urgent issue and for me, it's the most critical issue for here and now that we must get resolved." The Department of Finance said if councils had some employees on furlough and could show they had been negatively impacted by Covid-19, they should also be able to make use of the Job Support Scheme. But it said that having raised the matter with the Treasury, detailed guidance on the scheme was yet to be published. BBC News NI asked all 11 councils how many of their staff had been placed on furlough, and how many remained on the scheme. All 11 councils said they were still waiting for guidance as to whether they can take part in the incoming Job Support Scheme in November. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.