Bailey from New Jersey took out two billboards close to director and actor Tyler Perry's studios in Atlanta that read "Attention Mr Perry, Racquel Bailey is your next leading lady" along with a picture of herself and her social media handles. Posting on Instagram she wrote: "I'm just a mother wanting to show my children that I went for it all, that . So one day, they'll be able to do the same." Bailey told the BBC she had taken out a billboard seven years ago but had not had any response so she decided to give it another shot. "I was driving to work and I passed a number of billboards. It reminded me of a scene in the film Introducing Dorothy Dandridge, in which Halle Berry's character was told by an agent that until her face was plastered all over billboards she was irrelevant."  A post shared by (@imracquelbailey) on Two days after paying over $2,000 (PS1,580) for the billboards the actress says she auditioned for a Tyler Perry pilot, with a second audition a week later in New York. On Thursday, four weeks after the billboards went up, it seemed Bailey's efforts had paid off, Tyler Perry responded. His advice was not just for her but also for other actors hoping to be cast in his projects. "Soooooo...... here's the deal. This is not the way to get my attention if you're looking for a role in one of my shows. Please DON'T DO THIS, SAVE YOUR MONEY!!" the post read. Perry also softened the blow by complimenting the actress for a role he had seen her in. "You were great in THE NIGHT OF! It was my favourite show a couple years ago. I ALREADY SAW YOU!! So just audition and keep your money!! Again, I appreciate your effort, but that's not the way to work for me." Auhhh.... soooooo......  here's the deal. This is not the way to get my attention if you're looking for a role in one of... Perry's post on both his Facebook and Instagram accounts generated thousands of responses, with many applauding the filmmaker's "constructive criticism." "Tyler you handled this appropriately. Not only did you educate her but others," read one Facebook comment." Another posted: "God bless you for providing feedback. This is helpful information for others that want to work for you." However others praised the actress's unique way of standing out from her peers and thought Perry's response was a "lil harsh". "Ok that was not necessary to knock her for trying to stand out." commented a Facebook user. While another asked: "Why bash her for thinking outside the box? "Yes, your auditions may be free but this is what you do to stand out because I'm sure everyone who auditions for you is good." Another Facebook commentator thought Perry's response was a cleverly calculated move: "He just gave her priceless exposure. "Even though he said he didn't agree with this method he simultaneously acknowledged her talent, and many other film makers will take notice, and I promise you that someone else will give her a shot." While Tyler Perry might not be impressed with Bailey's billboard efforts, another casting director it seems was. asking her to get in touch, saying: "You won, because the whole country now knows your name." Bailey has since posted her own thoughts on Perry's words of advice. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.