Prince William and Catherine are on a to hear their challenges during the pandemic. The royals arrive with among the UK's highest. Wales' health minister hopes the visit is not used as an "excuse" for people. "I'd rather no one was having unnecessary visits," said Vaughan Gething. "But their visit isn't an excuse for people to say they're confused about what they're being asked to do." Kensington Palace is not making an official comment but it is understood that the visit was planned in conjunction with the Welsh Government as travelling across borders is permitted for work purposes. Wales reported on Monday as Mr Gething said the with "the highest number ever recorded" of Covid patients in Welsh hospitals. William and Kate arrived in Cardiff as part of their three-day tour on Tuesday morning on board the royal train to thank community workers and frontline staff in the UK. "People always have divisive views about the monarchy," Mr Gething told the BBC. Asked whether William and Kate's visit should go-ahead, Wales' health minister said: "I'm not particularly bothered or interested. "I don't think that is going to be an excuse for people to say 'I should go and behave in a different way and I should act as if the harm that is being seen in front of us in every part of our healthcare system is not taking place'." The duke and duchess boarded the royal train on Sunday for their 1,250 mile-journey which includes stops in England, Scotland and Wales. But UK Culture Secretary Oliver Dowden welcomed William and Kate's trip to Cardiff, "to see the impact" that culture has on communities. "Throughout the pandemic, organisations across the country have stepped up to support those in need and our choirs, bands, actors, film-makers, museums - and the technical crews that support them - are no different. "Cultural and heritage organisations across the country have brought us joy and happiness online, on television and on our mobile phones by creating cultural content we can enjoy safely." After initially saying the Cambridges' tour was a "matter for the palace", No 10 said Boris Johnson welcomed the "morale boost" it would provide. A No 10 spokesman said: "The PM is delighted to see the warm reception the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have received on their hugely valuable train tour of England, Scotland and Wales. "The tour will be a welcome morale boost to frontline workers who have done so much during the pandemic." The couple were joining students from Cardiff University, Cardiff Metropolitan University and the University of South Wales as they unwrapped their Secret Santa gifts to one another. The duke received a Guinness coaster card game while the duchess was given a traditional Welsh love spoon. He gave a mini table football game while Kate gave a 'Prosecco pong' game. The visit coincided with Christmas at the Castle - a festival of Christmas activities staged at the tourist attraction throughout December. William and Kate browsed some of the Christmas stalls and toasted marshmallows over a fire. Touching one of the sticky sweet treats with her gloved hand, Kate laughed and said: "I'm going to have that marshmallow on my fingers all day." The couple admitted they were still struggling over their plans for Christmas, telling students they did not know who to spend the festive season with. "It is so difficult," William said. "We are still trying to make plans. It's difficult to know what to do for the best." Lily Faulkner, a 21-year-old second year politics and international studies student at Cardiff University, said afterwards: "They were trying like the rest of us to make Christmas plans with their family and still weren't 100 per cent sure of what they were going to do or where they were going to be." Law student Alice Holloway was one of the first in Cardiff to talk to the royal couple. "One of the main things we talked about was the impact of the pandemic on student mental health," said the 20-year-old in her third year at Cardiff University. "I told them the social isolation students are facing is causing a lot of wellbeing issues at the moment. They were genuinely interested which was lovely to see." As part of their tour, the royal couple later visited the Royal Berkshire Hospital in Reading to pay tribute to the work of its nurses. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.