People returning to the UK from certain countries do not need to self-isolate. The full lists of the countries that are exempt from the quarantine rule are here for , , and . Here are details of what to expect when you're in some of the most popular warm weather destinations for Britons. No Yes Spain for Britons on their summer holidays, and 400,000 people from the UK own second homes in the country. It had one of the strictest lockdowns in Europe, up to the end of June. Since then, its borders have reopened to tourists but in Western Europe. Daily cases have risen from fewer than 150 in June to more than 1,500 throughout August. As of 26 July, people returning from Spain to the UK must quarantine for 14 days. In addition, the Foreign Office is now also advising against all but essential travel to Spain, including the Balearic and Canary Islands. Visitors arriving from the UK to self-isolate - but you will have to give your contact details and undergo a temperature check and health check on arrival at the airport. People must stay 1.5m apart in public. Everyone aged six and over should wear face masks in public spaces where it is not possible to follow the 1.5m distance rule. However, different provinces in Spain have introduced different measures. For example, masks are compulsory everywhere, even when the social distancing rule can be followed, in areas including Madrid, Catalonia and the Balearic Islands. Some areas have also reintroduced lockdowns after local outbreaks. In July, parts of Catalonia - including Barcelona - with cinemas, theatres and nightclubs temporarily closed. Smoking in public spaces in areas such as Galicia and the Canary Islands. Hotels and other accommodation, such as campsites and hostels, are open - but they are required to put in place capacity limits so all guests can stay 1.5m apart. In most of Spain, and are open but are running at reduced capacity and must follow strict social distancing rules. are also open, although capacity is limited and  people must provide contact details and wear masks. have reopened, again with reduced capacity. Outdoor concerts of up to 400 people are allowed with social distancing measures in place. Visitors are able to go to the while most and have reopened to a limited number of visitors. Two of Spain's most visited sites, and the have already welcomed tourists back. The country is open to tourists entering by car, ferry, train or air. However, some travel companies, including Jet2 and Tui have cancelled flights and holidays to mainland Spain, as well as the Balearic and Canary Islands, since the UK government changed its guidance. British Airways and Ryanair continue to operate scheduled flights to Spain. Not currently, but France measures are to be introduced Yes, quarantine measures were imposed on travellers arriving in the UK from France from 15 August at 04:00 BST France is the second-most popular country for UK visitors, with around 17 million crossing the Channel every year. Some 200,000 Britons have chosen it as the place for a second home. The country began to ease its strict lockdown on 11 May. President Emmanuel Macron declared on 14 June that France had won its "first victory" against the virus as he lifted more restrictions, which has recorded more than 30,000 deaths. A quarantine-free travel corridor was established between the UK and France in early July, but after a surge in cases in August, requiring people arriving from France to self-isolate. People should remain 1m apart, and You also have to wear a mask When travelling by train, you need to make a reservation in advance. France is one of several European countries to tighten coronavirus restrictions in August, amid a rise in infections - particularly among younger people. Paris and Marseille are among those areas now deemed so-called "red zones" - high risk areas where local authorities have extra powers to impose restrictions. In both cities, masks are now compulsory in all public spaces. Hotels, gites, and campsites have reopened, as well as private rental accommodation. , and are allowed to open inside and outside areas, but they have to follow strict hygiene rules. Customers are asked to wear a face covering when walking inside, but this can be removed when seated. No service is allowed at the bar and a distance of 1m is kept between tables. There is a limit of 5,000 people for large venues and strict health rules apply for and remain closed. and have reopened, and you can now sunbathe or have a picnic, and play non-contact sports. have been allowed since 11 July. and are gradually opening their doors again - but a mask is required to visit. The Eiffel Tower started allowing visitors on 25 June. Disneyland Paris began a phased reopening on 15 July. Some have new rules in place. For example Aqualand, which has eight sites across the country, has advised visitors to arrive in their swimming costumes to avoid contamination in changing areas. It remains possible to get to France by air, sea or train. If arriving by Eurotunnel, travellers are being asked to fill out and carry with them a statement certifying that they do not have any coronavirus symptoms. The major airlines, Ryanair, EasyJet and British Airways, all continue to fly to France, although at a lower frequency than normal. A variety of routes across the Channel are on offer from ferry companies at reduced capacity, but since the re-imposition of quarantine measures in August, some companies . No No Italy, which surpassed 35,000 virus-related deaths in July, imposed one of the strictest and earliest lockdowns on 7 March. The first European country to be hit hard by the virus, it is for UK travellers annually. Italy reopened its borders on 3 June to travellers from other European countries, although the mayor of the island of Capri The country's tourist board has released this summer. In four regions - Sardinia, Sicily, Puglia and Calabria - tourists are People must stay 1m apart in public areas, including hotels and other communal spaces. In most parts of the country, holidaymakers over the age of six will need to wear a mask at all times in public spaces indoors, and outdoors where social distancing isn't possible. However, in Lombardy - the area around Milan, and the location of Italy's original coronavirus outbreak - a mask outdoors is mandatory at all times. On public transport travellers will be required to wear masks, while temperature scanners may be in operation at train stations and airports. Hotels, campsites, mountain huts and beach resorts have made arrangements to safely welcome visitors. However, with about 20% reportedly deciding not open their doors again this summer. , and reopened on 18 May, but they are hosting reduced numbers of diners, with tables further apart and plastic shields to separate customers. Masks must be worn when you go inside and anytime you get up from your table. Many venues are asking customers to provide their name and contact details before using their services. and have reopened, along with although the tourist board says you need to wear a swim cap in a pool. Most and are open, but entry must be pre-booked online. Capacity has been vastly reduced at some major tourist sites, like the Colosseum in Rome and the Uffizi gallery in Florence. and are also open but entrance numbers may be limited. Airlines running flights include Ryanair, EasyJet and British Airways, although the number of destinations and flights is markedly reduced. No No Greece acted swiftly to impose lockdown in late February, and it was first eased in late April. As of 27 August, it had a total of 9,280 confirmed cases and a death toll of 248, according to Johns Hopkins University. Its tourism season officially began on 15 June and it has already opened its borders to some countries. But British travellers had to wait after a ban on flights from the UK was extended. Since 15 July, British holidaymakers can now fly there, but and practice social distancing and self-monitor for coronavirus symptoms until they get a negative result (usually within 24 hours). If the test result is positive Greek authorities are likely to ask you to self-isolate for 14 days. People should aim to stay 1.5m apart and face masks on public transport - including flights and ferries - at airports, in shops, cafes, hairdressers, government offices, lifts and taxis. Masks are also strongly advised in other closed spaces. Travelling in a car or taxi is limited to a maximum of three adult passengers as well as the driver, although children do not count towards the limit. All hotels, campsites and Airbnb accommodation are allowed to reopen. Hotels can run at capacity but they have specific rules, including having a doctor on standby. Reception desks must also be moved outdoors where possible, and food served in buffets must be placed under protective acrylic screens known as sneeze guards. and are now able to reopen but with limits on capacity. No more than six adults can sit at a table together, although children are exempt. and have also opened. can open but the number allowed in will depend on the size of the pool, while water slides may be shut. Most tourist attractions, including and are up and running again, while such as the country's world-renowned Acropolis in Athens have also reopened. The major airlines have gradually reinstated flights to Greece, although when the Greek government extended its travel ban for UK citizens. For those nationalities allowed to enter, travel to the Greek islands is also possible, although passengers will need to complete a health questionnaire before boarding or take temperature checks. It is obligatory to wear masks when travelling on all ferries, where capacity is limited to allow for social distancing. No, but arriving in mainland Portugal you will be subject to health screening and travellers to Madeira, Porto Santo and the Azores will be tested on entry No Like Greece, Portugal has had fewer coronavirus cases and deaths than some other European nations. After initially lifting restrictions, it later reintroduced some of the rules following local outbreaks in Lisbon. As of 27 August, it had a total of 56,274 confirmed cases and a death toll of 1,809, according to Johns Hopkins University. and there are capacity rules in shops and on public transport. Face masks are compulsory in enclosed spaces such as shops and on public transport for everyone over the age of 10. Drinking alcohol in public places, except for pavement cafes and restaurants, is banned. Gatherings are limited to 20 people, except for religious ceremonies and family events, such as weddings and christenings. The Greater Lisbon area is in a state of contingency due to localised outbreaks. Restrictions currently in place include gatherings are limited to 10 people, while shops have to close at 8pm. Tourism accommodation that meets the so-called are allowed to open. and with capacity rules and 2m distancing in place. Last orders are at 11pm. It is up to the local area whether will open. are open but with measures in place to limit capacity and people must stay 2m apart. There is a mobile app to assess how full beaches are. have also been given the green light. and have all reopened, as well as Many flight routes between the UK and Portugal have already resumed. Yes, but British nationals are not allowed in anyway Yes Holidays to the US are still not a likely prospect. if they have been in the UK (or a number of other countries) within the past two weeks. Those who are eligible to enter the US - such as US citizens flying in from the UK - must be prepared to quarantine for 14 days. Even US travellers arriving from some US states must quarantine. And, since the US is not exempt from the UK's quarantine, anyone returning to the UK will have to self-isolate for 14 days. What's more, the Foreign Office still advises against non-essential travel to the US. The US has reported more than 5.8 million cases of coronavirus, and more than 179,000 deaths nationwide, according to Johns Hopkins University. Well, it varies state by state. You can . A number of US states have now made face masks compulsory while in public. Social distancing of 2m are reopening across the country, but there will be local rules on capacity. Again, it depends on the state. and other are likely to be following local regulations. California - a popular holiday destination for Britons - reintroduced sweeping restrictions on 13 July following a surge in cases. It ordered all indoor restaurants, bars, shopping malls and cinemas to close again. Churches, gyms, shopping malls, zoos, museums, hair salons and non-essential offices must shut indoor operations in some of the state's worst-affected counties, including Los Angeles. Meanwhile, Florida - another popular destination - However, its Disney World resort reopened with limited capacity on 11 July. Some flights are running between the UK and US, but on a reduced schedule and at higher than usual prices. You can also return to the UK from these destinations without needing to isolate, It reopened its borders to UK visitors on 12 June, and passengers are required to complete a form before arriving. Face masks are compulsory in crowded places and on public transport. face masks are compulsory at all times outside the home. Those aged over 65 (although this doesn't apply to those visiting for tourism) require a permit to travel between cities and must remain at their destination for a minimum of 30 days unless travelling for an international flight. The country is open to travellers from the UK, but people must keep a distance of 1.5m. Face masks are required in some public spaces but it All shops, tourist accommodation and restaurants are open - but bars and cafes in some states are shut. Travellers using Basel-Mulhouse-Freiburg airport to return to the UK will transit France and therefore will be required to self-isolate. Self-isolation rules might change soon for travellers returning from Switzerland to the whole of the UK, . Social distancing here is 1.5m. Most places are back open including shops, restaurants, bars and cafes. Masks are compulsory when travelling on public transport, except for children under 12. In the Alps, mountain railways and cable cars are running. Its borders to foreign nationals, and all travellers entering must undergo a 14-day quarantine. Travellers entering the UK from Australia do not have to self-isolate. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.