The money is part of the for the culture and heritage sectors. A PS15m Culture Organisations and Venues Recovery Fund will provide support to a range of businesses. Those it will benefit include nightclubs, comedy venues, large music venues and dance companies. Art galleries, studio facilities, commercial theatres and orchestras can also apply. There will also be PS21.3m for Historic Environment Scotland to protect jobs and support the reopening of properties in its care. Other funds include: Culture Secretary Fiona Hyslop acknowledged that it had been "an extremely trying time" for those in the culture and heritage sectors. "We have taken time to work closely with and listen carefully to the sectors, to understand exactly what they need." She said she believed the funds would make a difference in ensuring the sectors survived the pandemic and thrived in future. Iain Munro, chief executive of Creative Scotland, welcomed the "significant announcement of much-needed emergency support". "This follows a great deal of work involving Creative Scotland and the Scottish government, but also many people and organisations from across Scotland's cultural community," he said. However, the Scottish Conservatives questioned why not all of the UK government money had been passed on to the culture and arts sector. The party's culture spokesman Maurice Golden said: "Thousands of jobs are at risk here and a number of businesses could go under. "We need answers about why this vital funding is sitting in a Scottish government account when it needs to be out there protecting jobs and businesses." Some pub and nightclub owners have previously criticised the government over the money previously set aside for arts venues. Donald Macleod, owner of The Garage and Cathouse in Glasgow , such as theatre groups. Creative Scotland will announce how businesses and individuals can apply for the funding next week. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.