Plans to return children to the classroom vary between the nations. Pupils in England will not return before the February half term. The government will tell teachers and parents when schools can reopen "as soon as we can", Boris Johnson has said. But . The government's deputy chief medical officer Jenny Harries said the return could vary according to local infection rates. Primary and secondary schools have offered remote learning for most pupils since January. The children of , and children deemed vulnerable, can still go to school each day. This includes those without access to a laptop at home, or a quiet place to study. The government says schools should provide three to five hours of teaching a day for pupils at home, depending on age. Colleges and universities are also teaching students remotely until mid-February - except courses for future key workers (including medicine and veterinary science). Nurseries and other early years settings . Schools will remain closed to most pupils Schools, early learning and childcare services can only open their doors to the children of key workers and vulnerable youngsters. Some special schools are open. Deputy First Minister John Swinney says the youngest pupils and those with additional needs , followed by senior pupils preparing for assessment. Colleges and universities can operate using a . The , Wales' first minister has said. Those preparing for qualifications and very young children may return first. Schools and colleges are open for children of key workers, vulnerable learners and those completing essential exams or assessments. Special schools are open where possible. Schools are . Vulnerable children and children of key workers can go to school and special schools can open. In , A-levels, AS levels and GCSE exams have been cancelled and teachers' estimated grades will be used instead. Primary school SATs will not go ahead this year, nor will phonics or timetable testing. Higher and Advanced Higher exams , with final grades to be based on teacher assessment. The National 5 exams . The has cancelled GCSEs, AS and A-levels. Grades were going to be based on classroom assessments instead but will , based on evidence such as mock exams and coursework. In , . Alternative arrangements will be announced soon. The government has , except for a small number of secondary schools and colleges. If any pupil or teacher tests positive for Covid, they must go home and self-isolate for 10 days. Anyone who has been in close contact with the person testing positive must also self-isolate. In schools closed in mid-December and will remain shut until at least 14 February. Similarly, in and the school closures are due to last until at least the second week of February. However, schools in - which is in a lockdown - are open, with extra testing in place. Schools are also open in and . High school students in have recently been allowed to return to normal lessons. They are divided into groups and full classroom occupancy is not allowed. also allowed reopening of primary schools and nurseries in January. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.