"Our current crisis has switched us out of normal existence and into survival mode," says Dr Anna Jorgensen, who researches the connection between environment and wellbeing at the University of Sheffield. "We no longer see ourselves as quite so immortal," she says. With far more people unable to work, or working from home, many have been inspired to explore nature in their neighbourhood as they refocus on their immediate surroundings. As one Instagram user summed it up: "[It] takes a lockdown to find new paths from home. Escaped the 'office' to follow the River Trent winding through the floodplain at the bottom of our road, past gnarly old tree stumps and a statuesque heron." As factory and car emissions have declined, there are fewer tiny particles in the air, so it's easier to see beyond built-up areas and to the stars in the night sky. Less city noise also highlights the sounds of birds. There is also greater interest in gardening. Google Trends shows a doubling of worldwide online searches for compost and seeds compared with a year ago. While the impact of experiencing nature on our physical health is less well documented, a wealth of of the natural world on our mental health. Even a brief nature fix - 10 minutes of wind brushing across our cheek, or the sun on our skin - can lower stress, explains Dr Mathew White, from the University of Exeter. If we immerse ourselves in beautiful landscapes, like a rich coastline or a wild forest teeming with an array of species, we feel more intense emotions, he adds. Connecting with nature can help us feel happier and more energised, with an increased sense of meaning and purpose, as well as making tasks seem more manageable. Dr Gretchen C Daily from Stanford University, in the US, uses to help the World Bank and city governments around the world develop policies to integrate the natural environment into our urban landscapes. , such as gardening and farming, have been used as part of mental health treatments around the world for centuries. GPs in London, Liverpool and Dorset have been prescribing nature experiences for patients with depression and anxiety. These include a healthy walk or planting mint to nurture and grow. Evidence indicates you can also benefit from "bathing" yourself in nature remotely. installed large plasma displays of real-time natural scenes outside an office, resulting in people's connection to their wider social community and the natural world increasing. Sounds have a particular power to evoke memory, according to PhD researcher Alex Smalley. So your feelings can be enhanced by listening to , such as crashing waves or , after you've experienced them in person or watched a powerful film or programme featuring that landscape. Dr Jorgensen believes seeing the recurrent rhythms and rebirth of nature, in which plants and animals survive despite the harshness of winter, can also offer us hope and help us cope with the tragedies in our lives. Part of nature's power lies in its ability to wash away whatever is provoking a lot of our stress, explains Dr Daily. Slow movements such as the ripples of water or clouds moving across the sky place effortless demands on our working memory but enough to distract us from spiralling rumination, self-blame and hopelessness. Researchers call this capacity to hold our attention the of nature. Tending to a plant helps us to appreciate the power we have to nurture, and gives us a sense of achievement when the plant flourishes, which Dr Jorgensen says is particularly important for those struggling with their mental health. According to Dr White, the if we can spend a total of two hours a week connecting with nature. The more senses we use - not only sight and sound but also smell, feel and taste - the greater the benefits. Advice from the contributing experts includes: The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.