But what exactly is the licence fee - and who is required to have one? Today, the (PS53 for black and white TV sets). The licence fee's existence This sets out the BBC's funding and purpose. The BBC provides - which means its mission is "to act in the public interest" by providing "impartial, high-quality and distinctive" content, which " " all audiences. Money raised from the licence fee pays for BBC shows and services - including TV, radio, the BBC website, podcasts, iPlayer and apps. Almost PS3.7bn was raised by the licence fee in 2019, The remaining 25% (or PS1.2bn) came from commercial and other activities (such as grants, royalties and rental income), according to the House of Commons Library. From 1 August, the BBC will only fund a free licence for any household This could include more than 1.5 million households. Up to 3.7 million people will lose their free licences. Until the end of May, everyone aged over 75 could receive a free TV licence - which they had to apply for - paid for by the UK government. when the BBC became responsible for paying. The BBC had planned to require most over-75s to take on the cost at this time, but delayed the change because of coronavirus. This cost the BBC an estimated PS70m. Continuing to fund free TV licences for all over-75s would have resulted in "unprecedented closures". However, a cross-party group of MPs has . The law says that you must have a TV licence if you: The rules apply to any device on which a programme is viewed, including a TV, desktop or laptop computer, mobile phone, tablet or set-top box. So, for example, someone watching a live football match on a non-BBC channel via a laptop, would still need a TV licence. But a licence fee is not needed to view BBC programmes on other streaming services, like Netflix. So, downloading Gavin & Stacey on Netflix would not require a TV licence, whereas downloading the same episode on iPlayer would. It is also fine to watch non-BBC programmes on online catch-up services without a TV licence, as well as viewing clips on sites like YouTube, . There are different rules for people like , , and . Watching live programmes without a TV licence fee is . In 2018, more than 121,000 people were convicted for evasion. The average fine was PS176, but the maximum penalty is PS1,000, plus legal costs and/or compensation. TV licence evasion itself is not an imprisonable offence. However, the government says non-payment of the fine, following a criminal conviction, . This would be "a last resort", after other methods of enforcement have failed. Last year, there were about 26.2 million TV licences in use in the UK. About . The government is now considering decriminalising non-payment of the licence fee by 2022. Announcing the consultation, Culture Secretary Nicky Morgan said it was time to think about keeping the fee "relevant" in a "changing media landscape". It is not just the government that has questioned the licence fee. Match of the Day presenter suggested Lord Hall, , defended the charge, saying the corporation's success lies in it "being paid for and owned by the British public". Decriminalisation would not mean that having a licence is voluntary, but failing to pay could become a civil offence, similar to non-payment of council tax or electricity bills. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.