It was the most scandalous case of Victorian times and those on opposing sides knew each other well. It was the most scandalous case of Victorian times and those on opposing sides knew each other well. Twenty people died during violent clashes in the city in a single week. BBC News NI examines how newspapers reported the passing of the Government of Ireland Act in 1920. Protestant and Catholic leaders say NI's centenary creates "opportunities for greater understanding". Unionists believe the centenary should be celebrated, but Sinn Fein says there's "nothing to celebrate". Arlene Foster and Michelle O'Neill took part in the debate to give their contrasting perspectives. A look at the key events that led to the formation of the new state 100 years ago. It was the most scandalous case of Victorian times and those on opposing sides knew each other well. Twenty people died during violent clashes in the city in a single week. BBC News NI examines how newspapers reported the passing of the Government of Ireland Act in 1920. Protestant and Catholic leaders say NI's centenary creates "opportunities for greater understanding". Unionists believe the centenary should be celebrated, but Sinn Fein says there's "nothing to celebrate". Arlene Foster and Michelle O'Neill took part in the debate to give their contrasting perspectives. A look at the key events that led to the formation of the new state 100 years ago. Twenty people died during violent clashes in the city in a single week. BBC News NI examines how newspapers reported the passing of the Government of Ireland Act in 1920. Protestant and Catholic leaders say NI's centenary creates "opportunities for greater understanding". By Damon Quinn Writer and producer It was the most scandalous case of Victorian times and those on opposing sides knew each other well. By David Wilson BBC News NI Twenty people died during violent clashes in the city in a single week. By Chris Andrews BBC News NI BBC News NI examines how newspapers reported the passing of the Government of Ireland Act in 1920. Year '21 will examine the parallels between 1921 and 2021 and wants as many people as possible to join in. By Mark Simpson BBC News NI The poet's portrait is used in a government campaign to mark Northern Ireland's centenary. By Ciaran McCauley BBC News NI A look at the key events that led to the formation of the new state 100 years ago. By Ciaran McCauley BBC News NI These were the key figures in Belfast, London and Dublin when the border was drawn. By Luke Sproule BBC News NI Devolved government, new courts and rules on freemasons and universities were all included. By Mark Simpson BBC News NI Arlene Foster and Michelle O'Neill took part in the debate to give their contrasting perspectives. Email us at Send an SMS or MMS to Follow