South Wales Police said it would increase the numbers of officers on duty to encourage people to adhere to the rules. The powers will be in place from 09:00 on Friday until 17:00 on Sunday. People breaching regulations could be fined and told to leave the city, the force said. Wales' "firebreak" lockdown ended on 9 November, allowing pubs, restaurants and non-essential retailers to reopen, with social-distancing measures in place. People living in Wales could also travel anywhere in the country from this date, but travel to and from England, which is still in lockdown until Wednesday, is banned. Supt Jason Rees said: "The past few months have been difficult for us all, and with the rules having relaxed slightly, non-essential business reopening and Christmas just around the corner, it's understandable that people will want to get out and about and enjoy all our city has to offer. "The vast majority are doing so with caution and within the confines of the existing regulations, but those not adhering to the rules are continuing to put others at increased risk. "We are anticipating another busy weekend in our city centre, and while we will continue to adopt the policing style we have throughout the pandemic - working with the public to encourage voluntary compliance - we are committed to enforcing where blatant and flagrant breaches occur." North Wales Police said it had no special operation in place for the coming weekend but had an "ongoing  dedicated operation, which targets unlawful travel movement amongst other types of Welsh Government regulation breaches such as unlawful gatherings". In the run up to Christmas many of us would be heading out for drinks and catch-ups with friends and preparing for parties. But under current coronavirus rules in Wales it is illegal to meet up with too many people, in a bid to curb the spread of the virus. Mass gatherings and house parties are banned, while only groups from four different households are allowed to meet indoors at pubs, cafes and restaurants. Pubs, bars and restaurants, gyms, and other businesses are also allowed to reopen, but with last orders at 22:00 GMT, there have been fears people may start going to each other's homes to drink. There are no travel restrictions in Wales, as local lockdowns have ended - but people are being urged to consider whether they need to travel before setting off. While England remains in lockdown - until 2 December - it is against the law to travel across the border, unless you have a reasonable excuse, such as providing care or for study or work (if you cannot from home). Under the coronavirus fixed penalty notices system, people can be fined PS60 for a first offence, which increases to PS120 for a second offence and continues to double for repeated offences, up to a maximum of PS1,920. If prosecuted, however, a court can impose an unlimited fine. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.