Bristol Dry Gin's advert said rioters would like its "high flammability" amid widespread protests in the US about . A retailer and a cafe said they had removed the gin from sale. The firm apologised and said it was "way out of line." The Bristol Pantry has removed the company as a supplier while vegan deli Flip said it had "no intention of continuing stock". Thanks for your support, Bristol. Due to an earlier post brought to our attention, we have now removed a supplier from the Bristol Pantry. The current events involving police brutality against black people shouldn't be used for marketing purposes, it's not right or acceptable. The phrase "when the looting starts, the shooting starts" was coined by Miami Police Chief Walter Headley in 1967, in reference to his aggressive policing policies in black neighbourhoods. President Trump's tweet using the phrase was This is not the first time the company has courted controversy, with an in 2018, posted around the time of the Salisbury Novichok poisonings. Twitter users criticised the gin company's adverts, which have since been deleted. Well done.I have lived in Bristol for 22 years and in that time have tried to explain to people that this brand of 'edgy', 'subversive' attitude to things is hurtful, ignorant and racist - and also 100% steeped in the kind of privilege... Being from Bristol, how dare you drag the name of this diverse city and the issues with race that persist, into your cheap marketing ploy. Read the room. Read your city. Bristol Dry Gin said it was "way out of line with a recent post which made light of the very serious situation, and follow up messages". "We're really sorry, we clearly caused major offence," it added. "It doesn't change anything but we've today made a donation to Black Lives Matter, who have been very helpful. "We have been in contact with SARI (Stand Against Racism and Inequality) in Bristol to support their work with profits from the gin." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.