Here, we answer a selection of readers' questions on family benefits and finances. to support the parents of young children. Labour said it would spend PS1bn on opening 1,000 new early years Sure Start centres in England. It is part of a PS4.5bn package, which also includes 30 hours' free childcare for all two to four-year-olds. The Liberal Democrats are promising working families free childcare for children from the age of nine months. They said their PS14.6bn policy is "an investment in the country's future", and would be funded by tax changes. All three and four-year-olds in England are currently entitled to 570 free hours per year - typically taken as 15 hours per week across 38 weeks (the school year). Some working families are eligible for 30 hours free childcare, The Conservatives say they have increased the funding and quality of childcare provision while in government. (SMP) is paid for 39 weeks. For the first six weeks it is paid at 90% of their average weekly earnings before tax. The following 33 weeks is paid at at PS148.68 per week or 90% of their average weekly earnings, whichever is the lower. But some employers offer maternity pay that is more than the statutory rate. Shared parental leave allows parents - after birth or adoption - to share up to 50 weeks of leave and up to 37 weeks of pay between them. is a period of either one or two consecutive weeks that fathers or partners can take off from work to care for their baby or child. The father or partner can receive statutory paternity pay of PS148.68 per week, provided they have worked for their company for 26 weeks. At the moment, all employees have - not just parents or carers. But workers need to have been with the same employer for at least 26 weeks in a row to be eligible for it. Labour recently reconfirmed a pledge made in February to give workers the right to choose their working hours But business lobby group the CBI said that needing government approval to set working patterns could create extra levels of bureaucracy and be expensive. Other parties are yet to outline their positions on flexible working. Only individuals can stand as parliamentary candidates. However, the issue of whether MPs should share a job has been discussed in Parliament. In October 2019, Stella Creasy, Labour MP for Walthamstow, announced she was to provide maternity cover for her. The person chosen would cover constituency work over seven months and would not sit in the Commons or vote. The two-child limit means that most parents can only receive the child element of for the first two children they have. It does not apply if the third, or subsequent children, were born before April 2017. Most parties haven't released their manifestos, which outline their plans for the country. But, at the SNP's election campaign launch, Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said . Labour has previously said it would end it too. The Conservative Party has previously claimed that ending the benefit cap would cost PS190m a year. But, this figure is sourced from a parliamentary report, which says this is . Regarding child benefit, there is no limit to how many children for whom parents can claim. The state pension age for women was increased to 65 in 2018, a move critics say was unfair. They argue those born in the 1950s were not given enough time to make adjustments after the qualifying age was raised from 60. Campaign group Women Against State Pension Inequality (Waspi) wants a "bridging" pension, to cover the gap from the age of 60 until their state pension is paid. Another group, Backto60, is calling for a repayment of all the pensions women born in the 1950s would have got, had they been able to retire earlier Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he would look into the issue, during the Conservative leadership campaign. Labour has already pledged to extend pension credit to the women affected. Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon previously . The Liberal Democrats voted in favour of a motion at their party conference that would see the women "properly compensated". The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.