Hargobind Tahilramani, 41, is alleged to have swindled hundreds of thousands of dollars out of hopeful actors. The FBI is investigating the alleged scam, which it said began in 2013. Mr Tahilramani was recently arrested in the UK. The US has made a provisional application for his extradition. The application is on the grounds of aggravated identity theft, wire fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud, and a full extradition request is expected in January. At Friday's hearing at Westminster Magistrates Court, District Judge David Robinson said there were substantial grounds to believe Mr Tahilramani would fail to surrender to the court in future if he was granted bail, so he is being held in custody for another 28 days. The Hollywood Reporter with the assistance of private investigators from a company called K2 Integrity. Mr Tahilramani allegedly impersonated Lucasfilm boss Kathleen Kennedy, former Sony movie chief Amy Pascal and ex-Paramount boss Sherry Lansing. He also allegedly pretended to be Wendi Murdoch, the entrepreneur, film producer and ex-wife of Rupert Murdoch, along with several male movie executives. The AFP news agency said the court documents, filed in California, showed film industry workers were "approached with offers of lucrative showbiz jobs and instructed to travel to Indonesia for tasks including location scouting, research and drafting screenplays". Mr Tahilramani would "use fake accents and alter his voice to sound like a woman", according to the documents. When victims arrived in Indonesia, they were allegedly cheated out of US currency for upfront payments to Mr Tahilramani and his colleagues, who offered movie projects that never materialised. If the victims "complained or expressed doubt, Tahilramani would sometimes threaten to 'dismember' them", it was claimed. The FBI has said the alleged scam moved to "non-existent training videos" when the travel bans took effect due to the coronavirus pandemic. Jules Kroll, co-founder of K2 Integrity, : "This started as an investigation into a single impersonation case, but it snowballed from there into an investigation into a series of impersonations." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.