Police told Belfast City Council that the loyalist paramilitary group the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF) was involved with the Avoniel bonfire. In a letter, police said there was a risk of "serious violence" if council workers attempted to dismantle it. Bonfire organisers said they could "guarantee no violence" if and when contractors arrived to remove the pyre. BBC News NI understands the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) said in its letter to the council that the violence would be "controlled by the east Belfast UVF" and they "could not rule out a risk from firearms". Bonfire builders said it had been reduced in size and relocated to a safer location. In a statement on Wednesday evening, PSNI Assistant Chief Constable Mark Hamilton said the police were ready to assist the council or its contractor to remove bonfire materials. "I would urge people to heed the calls from the community and not to engage in any violent or criminal behaviour," he added. Tensions have been building ahead of bonfires being lit before the Twelfth of July marches. Bonfires are lit in some Protestant areas in Northern Ireland on 11 July, the night before Orange Order parades commemorate the 1690 Battle of the Boyne. Loyalist graffiti had appeared next to the site at Avoniel Leisure Centre threatening contractors alleged to be involved in the removal of bonfire material. Police on the UVF threat in east Belfast. Below is an extract from the letter which a senior PSNI officer sent Belfast City Council about the Avoniel bonfire. Jamie Bryson, a spokesman for the bonfire builders, said speakers at a protest outside the leisure centre on Tuesday had urged people to "stay peaceful and stay calm". "There had been two, three, days of massive tension in this community and the only incident of note is a piece of graffiti on the wall." Robert Girvin, from the East Belfast Cultural Collective, a group representing builders of a number of bonfires, said the Avoniel bonfire was not controlled by the UVF. "It is controlled by the grannies, the mothers, the sisters, the children, the people of the local community," he said. "That's who controls this, that's who organises it and that's who wants it - no-one wants violence." On Tuesday night, hundreds of people gathered outside Avoniel Leisure Centre to protest against the council decision to remove the bonfire. It came after Belfast City Council said its initial decision to remove bonfire material at Avoniel Leisure Centre had not changed. Belfast councillors met again on Wednesday and decided to go ahead with plans to remove it. In a statement, the council said it intended to send a letter of complaint to the police citing aggravated trespass at Avoniel Leisure Centre. The council said it had tried to engage with bonfire builders in the area for months. Protesters said they tried to compromise with authorities but were determined that the event would go ahead on Thursday night. It is estimated there are between 80 and 100 bonfires in Belfast this year, with 35 signed up to an official scheme funded by the council. In County Armagh, hundreds of windows were boarded up in a housing estate before a controversial loyalist bonfire was lit on Wednesday night. Dozens of residents near the Drumilly Green bonfire in Portadown were advised to leave their homes. The fire service was also there and sprayed two of the three nearby blocks of flats with foam to keep them cool. Work had started hours earlier to protect homes near the bonfire after the housing association that owns the flats wrote to residents to say the bonfire posed a "serious health and safety risk". The South Ulster Housing Association told other residents that they could stay but the doors and windows of their homes were protected. Armagh, Banbridge and Craigavon Borough Council and the emergency services raised concerns about the bonfire but on Tuesday the council confirmed it would not send a contractor to remove it. The bonfire was built by a group called Corcrain Redmanville Bonfire. A spokesperson for the group said: "It's not as big as last year's bonfire. It was 223 pallets high - this one is 210 pallets. "There has been an overreaction by the council." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.