The women's prison-based comedy drama will finish after its upcoming seventh series. In a video on the show's official Twitter account, cast members including Uzo Aduba and Taylor Schilling promised it would go out with a bang. It first aired in 2013 and has been hugely successful, picking up Emmys and Screen Actors Guild awards. Warning: This may make you cry. The Final Season, 2019.  The show is set in the fictional Litchfield prison and is based on the 2010 memoir Orange Is The New Black: My Year In A Women's Prison by Piper Kerman. It quickly became a huge hit for Netflix and is one of its biggest ever original series. Uzo Aduba who plays Suzanne "Crazy Eyes" Warren said: "Season seven, you will not be disappointed. "It is a season you will not forget and we are going to give you everything and more that you could have ever wanted." "I'm so grateful for the fun times, the knowledge, the friendships, the love, the family that we have created together," she added. Kate Mulgrew who plays Galina "Red" Reznikov said: "I'm going to miss playing and living on the edge of one of the most groundbreaking, original and controversial series of this decade." The show has been praised for its portrayal of prisoners, as well as tackling issues like gender, race and sexuality. The cast of the show have been sharing the news on social media with messages to viewers and about their time on the series. It's a wrap..... well AFTER season 7! fans thank you!! What an amazing platform for so many . Beyond grateful! Looking forward to the next chapter  forever   Adrienne C. Moore wrote on Instagram that the actors "wouldn't be where we are today" without OITNB fans. "OITNB has changed my life and introduced me to so many wonderful people from around the world! With this official message of the end of our run, my heart is a little heavy, BUT excited for what's ahead," wrote Selenis Levya on Instagram. Uzo Aduba quoted Winnie The Pooh on Twitter, writing: "How lucky I am to have something that makes saying goodbye so hard." "Thank you very much for this opportunity to work with all of you and have my life changed in every way everyday," said Taryn Manning, who paid tribute to her fellow cast members on Instagram. The decision to bring it to a close comes as the popularity of Netflix continues to rise. It seven million new customers in the three months to September, bringing its global total to more than 137 million. Another of its successful original shows, House of Cards, will also end after a final season which launches in November. Orange Is The New Black's final episodes are expected to air in the summer of 2019. . . The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.