Mark McKinty, of Bankhall Road in Magheramorne, served on the Mid and East Antrim Borough Council. Ballymena Magistrates' Court heard the 31-year-old was stopped on Ballypollard Road in Larne on 5 July at 23:00 BST. Police said McKinty's eyes were glazed, he was slow to respond and appeared confused. He failed a breath test at the roadside and a further test showed 118 microgrammes of alcohol in 100ml of breath. The legal alcohol limit for drivers in Northern Ireland is 35 microgrammes of alcohol in 100ml of breath. on Wednesday. His barrister told the court his client had been at a friend's house, had a drink and then made the decision to drive a short distance home. He said his client's "budding political career lies in ruins" because of that decision. The court heard that McKinty had been convicted of a similar drink driving offence in 2013. The defence lawyer said McKinty had set up a restaurant in Larne but was not taking a wage from it. He added that McKinty would no longer receive PS1,100 a month as a councillor after resigning his position. Outside court, McKinty said he had made "a grave mistake". He said he wanted to "issue a heartfelt and sincere apology to residents and anyone else who felt let down" by his actions. When asked if he would return to politics in the future, he said: "That's yet to be seen." In a statement, the UUP said McKinty had told the party his actions were "unacceptable for a public representative and damaged trust in democracy". The party said it has started a process to fill the vacant council position. The judge said there were two highly significant aggravating factors in the case - the high alcohol reading and the fact it was McKinty's second such offence. He fined him PS400, a PS15 offender levy and banned him from driving for three-and-a-half years. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.