The move comes amid concerns about drug-related violence and was announced by PM Jean Castex on a trip to Nice, which has seen weeks of unrest. The roll-out of fines follows tests in cities such as Rennes and Marseilles. The EUR200 ($233; PS182) fixed fine will reduce to EUR150 if paid within 15 days. France is one of the leading consumers of cannabis in Europe. Legislation on recreational cannabis use varies widely from country to country. Several nations, like Canada, have legalised it while others have policies of minor punishment. But many others impose severe jail terms. France does already and fines of up to EUR3,750 for the use of illicit drugs, without specifically distinguishing drug types. But the laws, dating back to 1970, seldom lead to prison sentences, with magistrates preferring alternative punishments, often warnings. Although there is the reduction for early fine payment in the new system, if an offender fails to pay up in time it increases to EUR450. Mr Castex said the system would come in at the start of , the beginning of the school year after the summer break. The fines were initially proposed back in 2018 and were rolled out as tests in Rennes, Marseilles, Lille, Creteil and Boissy-Saint-Leger. It's part of the new prime minister's plans to strengthen security. He said he wanted to "put an end to the violence of everyday life" . He said the drugs measure would simplify police procedures by "inflicting punishment without delay". Mr Castex added that it would target drug dealers at their points of sale, which were "eating away at neighbourhoods". He was speaking in the southern port city of Nice, which has witnessed growing drugs-related violence, including in its Moulins district, where shots were fired in broad daylight outside a supermarket this week. As Mr Castex made his visit on Saturday, a young man was found dead from wounds in the city. For Nice, Mr Castex said 60 more police officers would be deployed in the coming weeks. There would also be extended powers for the police in the city, although these would be detailed later, and refurbishment of the main prison. More generally, 150 jobs would be created elsewhere to target what he called "local criminal action and everyday delinquency". , attacked by passengers who reportedly refused to wear face masks amid the coronavirus outbreak, touched a particular nerve in France. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.