Belfast City Council's planning committee said it needed more information about revised plans for Tribeca in the Cathedral Quarter. Outline approval for the project, which includes retail, offices and accommodation, . At the time, the council received more than 450 letters of objection to the plans and five in support. A first phase of the project has already received approval, with the new plan having been put to a voluntary 10-week public consultation by the site's owner, Castlebrooke Investments. It has properties spanning 12 acres between Royal Avenue and the Cathedral Quarter. Campaigners from the group SaveCQ (Save Cathedral Quarter) have opposed the wider scheme for its plans on housing and the impact on historic buildings in the area. Castlebrooke has previously outlined that its new plans incorporate "non-listed building fabric which further retains the best elements of the historic streetscape". SaveCQ's acting chair, Agustina Martire, welcomed the deferral and said she was "delighted" the council recognised there is "no social housing or family housing on site". "Now is the time for some creative thinking and proper communication to find a resolution which all parties can support," she added. Cllr Gary McKeown, deputy chair of the planning committee, told BBC News NI that Tribeca affects "the heart of Belfast city centre", so members wanted to "ensure the decision that's finally reached is fully considered and informed". "Members are seeking further information on a range of issues, including the social housing aspect of it, the gross value added proposed around the project and also issues around a proposed car pool scheme." Cllr McKeown added that "there are quite a few apartments but very little in the way of car parking" contained in the plans, so councillors want details to be "fleshed out". "The committee will meet again, look at the full evidence and reach a decision," he continued. Simon Hamilton, chief executive of Belfast Chamber, described the deferral as "disappointing" and called for the council to hold a special committee to review it "as quickly as possible". "This planning committee granted consent for these plans in January and it has subsequently received ratification from the Department for Infrastructure," he continued. "To then request further debate, when the city is in dire need of significant investment as a result of the coronavirus pandemic, sends a very negative message to other potential investors in the city and the process that we have to bring major developments to fruition." Castlebrooke Investments has previously said it wanted to begin work on site "as soon as possible". The developer said it would not be commenting on the deferral. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.