Four official pictures have been issued after their small ceremony at The Royal Chapel of All Saints in Windsor. One shows the beaming couple leaving the chapel through its flower-covered archway. In another they are outside the entrance with Beatrice's grandparents, the Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh. Beatrice's parents, the Duke and Duchess of York, did not appear in either of the released photos, though the palace confirmed her father walked her down the aisle. It comes as Prince Andrew continues to keep a low profile following the arrest of his former friend Ghislaine Maxwell for sex trafficking offences, which she denies. The Queen loaned Beatrice a vintage dress for the occasion, as well as a diamond fringe tiara which the monarch wore on her own wedding day in 1947. The newlyweds decided to hold a private ceremony with their parents and siblings after they postponed their wedding in May due to the coronavirus pandemic. Buckingham Palace sent out two pictures taken by Benjamin Wheeler, the day after Friday's wedding. Two further images by the Oxfordshire-based photographer - showing the couple holding hands in the grounds outside the chapel after they were married - were issued on Sunday. In a statement the couple said they were  so "touched by the warm wishes they have received since their wedding" they decided to share two more photographs from their "happy day". When the national lockdown began on 23 March, weddings in England were banned under almost all circumstances. However, since 4 July, ceremonies of up to 30 people have been allowed to take place. In a statement, the palace said the wedding was held within government guidelines. It is believed to be the first time the Queen, 94, and Prince Philip, 99, have attended a family gathering since lockdown began. For the ceremony, Beatrice wore a vintage Peau De Soie taffeta dress, in shades of ivory by Norman Hartnell, on loan from the Queen, and trimmed with duchess satin and encrusted with diamante. The dress was remodelled and fitted by the Queen's senior dresser Angela Kelly and designer Stewart Parvin, according to Buckingham Palace. Beatrice, who is ninth in line to the throne, also wore the Queen Mary diamond fringe tiara loaned to her by her grandmother. Beatrice, 31, and Mr Mapelli Mozzi, 35, had originally planned to marry on 29 May this year at the Chapel Royal, St James Palace, in London. The new venue of Royal Lodge in Windsor Great Park - a short drive from Windsor Castle - is Beatrice's childhood home. Her parents still live at the property. Mr Mapelli Mozzi's son Wolfie was best man and pageboy. Beatrice and her husband began dating in autumn 2018 and got engaged last September. The couple are said to have started a relationship after meeting again at Beatrice's sister Princess Eugenie's wedding to Jack Brooksbank. After Friday's ceremony, Beatrice's wedding bouquet was placed on the tomb of the unknown warrior in Westminster Abbey, as is tradition for royal brides. The bouquet was fashioned out of trailing jasmine, pale pink and cream sweet peas, royal porcelain ivory spray roses, pink O'Hara garden roses, pink wax flower, baby pink astilbe and, in keeping with royal tradition, sprigs of myrtle. The Reverend Canon Anthony Ball laid the bouquet with Toby Wright, the son of the sub-dean of the Chapel Royal, Reverend Paul Wright. (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.