Second year students who do not want to treat patients have to suspend their training, take authorised leave or switch courses. One trainee said: "They are putting second year students in the firing line, they are not qualified." The Welsh Government said those who opted-in would be "fully supported and supervised". A total of 2,000 student nurses and midwives are due to step into their roles on Monday. In guidance issued to students by the Welsh Government in conjunction with Health Education and Improvement Wales (HEIW), there is a section aimed at second year students or those in the first six months of their final year. It says: "You are invited to opt-in to an arrangement where you spent 80% of time in clinical practice, which would be remunerated (and will count towards practice hours as it will be part of your programme), and 20% in academic study during this emergency period. "If you do not feel able to opt-into this arrangement you will be supported by your university to consider the options available to you including a period of authorised absence or a suspension of studies or, if available, an alternative academic pathway. "Please note that a suspension of your studies will lead to a suspension of your bursary until you re-join the programme." The report said the "significant pressures on the system and the need to ensure that front-line services are fully supported" means it is "not possible to continue to provide the current programme for students in these years of study". One student, who asked to remain anonymous, said: "They have been told if they do not opt-in they will lose their student finance. "People are saying it's about learning on the job, these student nurses are not au fait with things. It's ridiculous. They are going to see horrific sights." In a Facebook post on 16 April, HEIW thanked the "2,000+ student nurses and midwives who have opted in to work within clinical settings in Wales during this difficult time". A huge thank you to the 2,000+ student nurses and midwives who have opted in to work within clinical settings in Wales... The trainee nurse said: "They will be in student houses in Cardiff or Plymouth or London without any support. "They are sending some to the field hospital in the Principality Stadium. "They are not giving them a choice - that's the problem - there's no consistency and they are not ready for it." She said nursing students were suffering under the strain of facing having to take on such roles. "They can't sleep and are beside themselves that they are having to go," she added. The HEIW said the position on student nurses was agreed on a UK basis and set out in a joint UK statement. HEIW director of nursing Stephen Griffiths said any students who opted in would "not be taking on the role of a qualified nurse or tasks above their level of competence" and would be supervised. He added: "We fully appreciate and understand due to personal situations some students are unable to opt-in. "There are a number of learning options open to them... With the learning options available it is rare for a student to suspend their studies and we are always sad to see this happen. "When it does universities continue to support students, discuss options outside of learning, and help them back into education as soon as possible should they wish to return." He added that they were working to ensure students who wanted to work closer to home would be able to do this and they were doing all they could to help students in England return to Wales for their placement if they so wanted. Helen Whyley, director of the Royal College of Nursing (RCN) Wales, said nursing students were a "crucial part of the succession planning in Wales" to increase nursing numbers. She said the RCN valued the "contribution nursing students make in clinical practice especially during this pandemic" and it had "their safety at the forefront of these arrangements". Ms Whyley added: "This is not a one-size-fits-all initiative. The guidance has to be flexible to support all students regardless of their choice and all universities need to offer suitable alternatives. "Also, it is essential that they maintain their bursaries and loans as we don't want to see any nursing student in Wales disadvantaged." A Welsh government spokeswoman said: "We appreciate there will be anxieties for students in these uncertain time and we're working closely with our partner organisations to ensure every option is explored to best support students so they are not disadvantaged by the current situation. "We are very clear that all those who opt-in will be fully supported, supervised and will continue to have allotted learning time." "NHS bursaries will continue over this time and eligible students should continue to apply for payments as they do now," she said. The spokeswoman said the Welsh government's guidance - Nursing and Midwifery Student Support Guidance during Covid-19 Outbreak - outlines the process for students to choose an option to suit their individual needs. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.