Vital food aid is being diverted by some corrupt officials in Houthi-held areas, a UN official says. Vital food aid is being diverted by some corrupt officials in Houthi-held areas, a UN official says. The missile strike left staff and children dead at the medical facility, says Save the Children. President Trump is expected to veto the resolution rejecting his support for a Saudi-led coalition. The president has vetoed a bill that would have ended the US support for the Saudi-led coalition. Houthi rebels start to pull out from Hudaydah, a big step towards a truce, but are accused of a "ploy". A rebel pull-out from Yemen ports is going as planned, the UN says, despite government misgivings. The ports, a lifeline for aid, are handed to the coast guard under a truce deal agreed last year. Vital food aid is being diverted by some corrupt officials in Houthi-held areas, a UN official says. The missile strike left staff and children dead at the medical facility, says Save the Children. President Trump is expected to veto the resolution rejecting his support for a Saudi-led coalition. The president has vetoed a bill that would have ended the US support for the Saudi-led coalition. Houthi rebels start to pull out from Hudaydah, a big step towards a truce, but are accused of a "ploy". A rebel pull-out from Yemen ports is going as planned, the UN says, despite government misgivings. The ports, a lifeline for aid, are handed to the coast guard under a truce deal agreed last year. The missile strike left staff and children dead at the medical facility, says Save the Children. President Trump is expected to veto the resolution rejecting his support for a Saudi-led coalition. The president has vetoed a bill that would have ended the US support for the Saudi-led coalition. By Lyse Doucet Chief international correspondent A nuclear crisis and charting peace are among the issues on the president's in-tray. By Nawal Al-Maghafi BBC Arabic special correspondent One doctor tells her story of battling the pandemic alone in Yemen after her colleagues fled. The UN's aid chief urges the US to reverse a plan to designate the Houthis as a terrorist group. Aid groups say it may threaten operations in areas where millions of people are facing starvation. At least 22 people are reportedly killed by an explosion near a plane carrying cabinet ministers. Television cameras were positioned for the arrival of the new government when the attack happened. The newly born boys need surgery that can only be done abroad, medics in the war-torn country say. Already facing a humanitarian crisis, Yemenis have been left in the dark over the coronavirus outbreak. By Frank Gardner BBC security correspondent US President-elect Joe Biden will press Mohammed bin Salman to act on Yemen, human rights and Qatar. Yemen is labelled the "the world's worst humanitarian crisis" and 60% of its population is under 25. Work could begin early next year to prevent the vessel breaking apart and spilling crude. By Caroline Hawley World Affairs Correspondent Saudi Arabia is hosting the G20 summit, but for many the spotlight is on these three issues. By Barbara Plett Usher BBC State Department correspondent The visit is as much about putting pressure on Iran as it is about shoring up the Israeli right. Why is the world not focused on the death, destruction and famine in Yemen? Recent heavy rains and flash floods damaged the 19th-Century Seiyun Palace in Hadramawt province. It is the biggest exchange of captives since the devastating conflict began in 2015. It comes as more than 200 Yemenis are allowed to fly back to rebel-controlled Sanaa from Oman. During the height of the pandemic in Yemen, there was only one functioning hospital in the city of Aden, home to a million people. Six-year-old Ayaan Moosa and Mikaeel Ishaaq have been raising money to help people in Yemen. Email us at Send an SMS or MMS to Follow