It remained steady for weeks but then fell dramatically, compared to what it was at its peak during lockdown, before starting to go up again. As of 13 January, the so-called R number remained between 0.8 and 1.1, according to the the Welsh Government's Technical Advisory Cell (Tac). This range is down from between 1 and 1.3 in Wales, before Christmas. "These estimates are encouraging as they are the same, or have reduced, since last week. However they should be treated with caution as they may be effected by changes in testing patterns over the Christmas period," said Tac's report. It says the new variant has been detected in 50% of cases in most health boards. It had been detected in 16 out of 22 local authority areas so far. Based on case rates, Public Health Wales (PHW) had an estimate on 8 January of between 0.88 and 0.91, down from being between 1.06 and 1.08. The latest R-number means for every 10 people with the virus in Wales, it would mean between eight and 11 more people would be infected. The R rate is the average number of people a sick person could pass the virus on to. Health Minister Vaughan Gething said the rate needed to drop below one for case numbers to begin falling. "The measures we have put in place at both a local and a national level to date have helped to keep the spread of the virus under check," he said. "But there is growing concern these will not be enough to help us through the winter because the virus is spreading so quickly. "We could see coronavirus infections reach the same level as the spring peak in just a couple of weeks." It tells us how many people are likely to get infected from a person who is ill with coronavirus. So if the R number is R2, it means a sick person is likely to transmit the virus to two other people. This is how coronavirus spreads. The lower the number the better - and under one is the aim. As restrictions are lifted, it leads to the R number rising. So if R is 1 then on average 10 people infected with Covid-19 would pass it on to another 10 people. But if R is 0.8 then on average 10 people who have caught coronavirus would pass it on to eight others, and so on. As of 13 January, . Another estimate, put it at about 0.75 on 23 January. Scientists say the R number is useful when coronavirus cases are going up or down, but with a low numbers of cases - as over the summer - it was hard to get a good handle on what was happening. So the lower the number of positive cases, the less useful it is. But with cases rising, the R number and growth rate are seen as more reliable tools again. This is also why it is also unreliable to try to estimate a R number for different regions of Wales. Tac said a low number of cases also meant the R number "becomes very sensitive to daily changes" in cases found through tracing, causing it to fluctuate weekly. The R number plays into a number of "circuit-breaker" tests, which health officials and scientists are looking at. The . This is about the same as the previous week and the Sage scientific group estimates a growth rate in Wales on 13 January between -0.04 and 0.01 (indicating that infections could be shrinking/growing by between -4% and +1% per day. Meanwhile, it has been estimated that 44,000 people in Wales had Covid in the week to 16 January. Analysis of thousands of in a survey by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) means it can estimate that about one in 70 people, or 1.45% of the population. The R number in Wales is worked out by looking at eight different data sources - and it is then a weighted average of estimates. This includes data from hospitalisations, confirmed cases, deaths and data from contact surveys, which includes a Welsh sample. figures have fallen as of 13 January, PHW estimated the halving time  - the time it would take for the number of cases to half - to be 28.5 days, down from 68 days. The number of people with confirmed Covid in had plateaued over recent weeks but remained high. In September, a "reasonable worst-case scenario" was published, after what could happen over the winter and into next spring was modelled by experts at Swansea University. The worst case looked at 636,000 infections, leading to 18,200 hospital admissions - peaking in January - and potentially 6,300 deaths. There were Earlier in the pandemic, the scientific advisers suggested an R of 0.8 would lead to 500 additional coronavirus deaths by the start of August and as many 7,000 if the R number reached 1.1. Initial estimates earlier in May suggested R 0.8 would lead to 800 more deaths and 7,200 if the rate hit 1.1. Tac said in its recent report that a consistent R number below 1 would lead to a reduction in cases and hospitalisations, while a consistent R number above 1 would lead to a rise. But they warn that a small increase in R above 1, maintained for three months, could have a "huge impact" on hospital demand and "greatly increase" the number of hospital admissions and deaths. The Sage group of UK scientific advisers is also looking at the speed and In Wales, incidence is highest in adults under 45, but high numbers of incidents continue to be reported, mainly in care homes. - where we travel to, including trips to work and shops. Tac reported mobility data to the week of the 12 January via Google shows a reduction in people spending time at home compared to the week before at. There was an rise in trips to work, and a small increase for retail and recreation. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.