Calls to remove the Oriel College statue in Oxford were A commission was set up to examine the statue's future and said a report would be released this month. But the date has been delayed due to a "considerable volume of submissions". A spokesperson for the commission, set up by Oriel College, said a report would "likely be published in early spring 2021 in order to ensure that all input is given careful and due consideration". They added that restrictions on livelihood due to the coronavirus pandemic had also disrupted the group's work. Campaigners want the statue removed because they say Rhodes, a 19th Century businessman and politician in southern Africa, represented white supremacy and was steeped in colonialism and racism. Following protests which saw thousands of people gather in Oxford's High Street to demand its removal last year, the governors of Oriel College voted to take it down, But a spokeswoman for the commission said despite the vote, there are no pre-conditions on what the review group can decide. The statue sits above a doorway on the front of the college's Rhodes Building, which faces Oxford's High Street. The commission deciding on its future includes broadcaster Zeinab Badawi, former Conservative shadow culture secretary Peter Ainsworth and Oxford Labour councillor Shaista Aziz. It has also been tasked with It has held a series of "evidence sessions" over the past six months but has not reached a decision about the future of the statue. Oxford City Council leader Susan Brown previously urged the college to apply to the council for planning permission to remove the statue. Because of its Grade II-listed status, Ms Brown said, it could be "placed in a museum, such as the Ashmolean or the Museum of Oxford". The Rhodes Must Fall campaign began in South Africa, where a Rhodes statue was removed, and was adopted in Oxford by campaigners who argued his views were incompatible with an "inclusive culture" at the university. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.