Ben Smithson, who owns the Aqua restaurants in Bristol and Bath, said food and drink establishments need more time to plan. Bath and North East Somerset is moving from tier two to tier three. Gloucestershire, Somerset and Swindon will move into tier four - the toughest Covid-19 restrictions - from Thursday. Bristol, north Somerset and south Gloucestershire remain in tier three. Under tier four restrictions, residents are under a "stay at home" order, while gyms and hairdressers have to close. In tier three areas, restaurants and pubs can only operate as takeaways. Mr Smithson said the lack of time to prepare was the most frustrating aspect. "I don't think it's fair the way the government are expecting us to pivot on a sixpence," he said. "Tomorrow is New Year's Eve which would have been one of the busiest nights of the year. "And it's not just the cancelled bookings, it's all the fresh stock that we've ordered in as well. "When we came out of lockdown last time we were given one day's notice and we managed it, but it was very difficult. "The hospitality industry needs more notice to be able to plan." The Oddfellows pub in Manton near Marlborough in Wiltshire is another business about to be under tier three restrictions. Manager Anne Bucknell said: "It's kind of devastating but at the same time it is good to have some clarification in regards to ordering and in tier two we had a lot of people trying to book in from outside the area, which was putting a lot of pressure on us. "Now knowing we are only going to be operating as takeaway there are certain things we won't order in, but obviously we want to keep putting as much business towards our suppliers at this difficult time to keep them going too." Annie Foffano, a self-employed beautician at Bellissima beauty in Swindon, said: "I think I knew it was coming this time. "I have been on edge the last couple of days waiting for the announcement, but also preparing for it, so I think I took it better." In between lockdowns Ms Foffano took on a new premises and said she is now waiting to hear if she will get any financial support from the government. In the meantime she said she had been "very lucky" that she has been supported by her clients who have been buying orders of skincare and gifts. Scott La Hive, centre manager of Cheltenham Regent Arcarde, home to 45 stores, said that with rising cases locally the tier change was "not hugely unexpected". "We didn't see a huge demand for click and collect in the November lockdown, so therefore a lot of stores that started decided it wasn't worthwhile," he said. "This time around it will be interesting to see if stores do operate click and collect especially as there'll be sale items the national and independents will be very keen to move on." Rachel Zammit from Gira Capelli hair salon in Tewkesbury, said she was "frustrated" at the short notice businesses had been given. "I can understand it's why it's got to be done. Obviously the numbers are rising," she said. "From a business perspective it's quite frustrating. It's the uncertainty - not knowing how long it will go on. "We can't book people in, we don't know when we're going to be open again. "The girls who work for me will be furloughed again but we'll be losing we'll still pay a percentage towards that and we still have bills to pay." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.