BBC News NI has asked the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) what the notices mean for people and businesses caught flouting the rules. The PSNI said there are three types of notices that can be issued for people breaking the rules. This is based on guidance outlined in , which was introduced in March in response to the rising number of Covid-19 cases. The first type of notice is a Covid 1 notice, which carries a minimum PS60 fine. Police can issue any number of "COV1s" to the same person, over the age of 18, up to the value of PS960. A number of these were handed out in Holyland and Stranmillis areas of Belfast over the weekend. , which have many student tenants. These are also known as . Police said prohibition notices are issued as a public safety measure. It requires premises to stop what enforcement officers consider to be unsafe activity, to limit the spread of Covid-19 and prevent a second wave of the virus. Police say it is "in effect, a warning for the purposes of stopping the person from continuing to breach the regulations". The Covid 2 notices are broken down into two types: prohibition notice issued to licensed premises and prohibition notices issued for the restriction of gatherings in a private dwelling, such as house parties. There is no associated financial penalty issued with an initial prohibition notice. However, should a premises breach the prohibition notice served then there is a potential financial penalty of up to PS5,000, upon conviction. And last, but not least, we come to the Covid 3 notice, which is for failing to isolate. It carries a PS1,000 fine. Anyone travelling to Northern Ireland from countries not on is required to self-isolate for two weeks on arrival. According to NI Direct, if you have travelled through a country outside of the common travel area (CTA) you must . You are not allowed to change the place where you are self-isolating except in very limited circumstances. While they are not Covid-specific notices, police can also issue , to anyone over the age of 10. These are simply warnings and do not incur any fines but are designed to reduce the impact on people's lives "compared to other non-court disposals and encourages them to change their behaviour and not re-offend". The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.