Only six of the 77 people on board the plane survived the crash, which came as the team headed to Medellin for the biggest match in their history. Three players were among the survivors, while 19 players and the coaching staff died. One of the team's idols, Danilo was instrumental in Chapecoense's historic performance at Copa Sudamericana. At the semi-final, he saved a last-minute goal attempt from Argentina's San Lorenzo, securing his side's place at the final. Joined the club in 2013. Was pulled alive from the wreckage but later died in hospital. One of Chapecoense's most experienced players, he had played for some of Brazil's biggest teams, including Santos, Sao Paulo and Flamengo. Also played for Spain's Atletico Madrid. Rangel (left) was the top scorer in the club's history, with 81 goals according to Brazilian media, and one of Chapecoense's idols. Joined the club in 2013. A friend told a that his daughter was due to celebrate her eighth birthday on Wednesday, and a party had been planned for Friday. He would have celebrated his 35th birthday on 11 December. Played for small clubs before being hired by Chapecoense earlier this year. Last week, his wife told him through his team-mates that she was pregnant with their first child. has been shared thousands of times on social media. Played for Fluminense before joining Chapecoense last year. Machado (right) had played at an Iranian club before being signed by Chapecoense this year. Kempes (left) had played for many small Brazilian teams and also in Japan. Played for some of Brazil's biggest clubs, including Cruzeiro and Palmeiras. Joined Chapecoense last year. Played in Azerbaijan. Local media reported that he was in negotiations with Santos. Joined Chapecoense last year. Josimar (left) had played for Palmeiras and Internacional, and also for Saudi Arabia's Al-Watan. Joined the club this year. Came to national attention after winning Sao Paulo's championship with Ituano in 2014. Joined Chapecoense last year. Was one of the club's youngest players. Joined Chapecoense this year. Played for many small clubs in Brazil, and won the state of Parana's championship with Coritiba in 2013. Joined Chapecoense this year. Started his professional career with Gremio in 2013. Joined Chapecoense this year. Was signed by Chapecoense last year after playing for many Brazilian clubs including Vitoria and Ponte Preta. Joined the club this year after playing for many small Brazilian clubs. Started playing football at the age of 10. Joined Chapecoense this year, after playing for many clubs, including Flamengo and Japan's Kawasaki Fronyale. Played for Flamengo and other clubs before being signed by Chapecoense this year. Joined the club last year after having played for many Brazilian sides, including Sao Paulo. Six people survived the crash in Medellin, including three players. Follmann is said to be in the most "severe" state of all the survivors, but his condition is medically stable. The goalkeeper has had one leg amputated and might still lose his other foot. His father, Paulo, told Associated Press news agency: "The chances of surviving an airplane crash are practically zero. That my son is one of the survivors is a miracle of God." Ruschel (right) has had spinal surgery. The club said the player still has "normal movements in upper and lower limbs" and is in a critical but stable condition. His fiancee, Marina Storchi, told that she had told the player not to travel to Colombia after his passport went missing in his house. Neto (left) remained in intensive care with severe trauma to his skull, thorax and lungs. The defender, who was the last person to be rescued, is in a critical, but stable condition, which the club say gives "good prospects for improvement". Nine of the club's players with the rest of the squad on the chartered flight, according to local media. They were Alejandro Martinuccio, Nenem, Demerson, Marcelo Boeck, Andrei, Hyoran, Nivaldo, Moises and Rafael Lima. Goalkeeper Marcelo Boeck did not travel because it was his birthday. The player's agent told Portuguese newspaper A Bola that he was celebrating his 32nd birthday at home. Alejandro Martinuccio was meant to be in the travelling squad but stayed at home due to injury. He tweeted: "Please pray for my team-mates." Veteran keeper Nivaldo was not selected so he could prepare for his 300th game with the club on Sunday against Atletico Mineiro in the last game of the Brazilian league season. After the accident, the 42-year old said he would retire immediately, but now wants to play in the last game to honour his fallen team-mates. "My team-mates would want us to play that match," he said. "I just don't know how I could stand a full stadium with people calling the name of the players that died. We will have to try, I think. But that is going to be hard." Matheus Saroli, the son of Chapecoense's manager Luiz Carlos Saroli, was meant to have boarded the plane but lost his passport and had to stay in Brazil. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.