The bodies of Louisa Vesterager Jespersen, 24, from Denmark, and Maren Ueland, 28, from Norway, were found beheaded in the High Atlas mountains. The defendants are facing charges including forming a terrorist cell. Three of them are accused of pledging allegiance to the Islamic State group and carrying out the killings. They face the death penalty. The defendants appeared at a court in Sale, in north-western Morocco, on Thursday. The trial was then adjourned until later this month. Morocco has had a moratorium on executions since 1993, but death sentences are still occasionally handed down. There have been online petitions calling for anyone convicted of the killings to be executed. The families of the victims and their lawyers will not attend the trial, according to AFP news agency. The bodies were found in an isolated area near a popular tourist spot in Morocco's High Atlas mountains on 17 December. A video appearing to show the beheading of one of the women was shared widely on social media by IS supporters. In Denmark, charges have been brought against 14 people suspected of sharing the footage. Police said the main suspects had pledged allegiance to IS, although they do not believe there was any contact made with jihadist groups in Syria or Iraq. Investigators suspect Abdessamad Ejjoud, a 25-year-old street vendor, was the group's ringleader, the AFP news agency reported. Younes Ouaziyad, 27, and Rachid Afatti, 33, are also accused of taking part in the murder, agency reports said. Other defendants are said to be facing trial over alleged links to the suspects. A dual Swiss-Spanish national, Kevin Zoller Guervos, was reported to be among those due to appear in court. for allegedly trying to recruit Moroccans to carry out terrorist plots. Last month, another Swiss national was tried separately and sentenced to 10 years in prison on a number of charges, including forming a terrorist group. Ms Jespersen and Ms Ueland had been studying outdoor activities at the University of Southeastern Norway. They reportedly shared an apartment and were training to be guides. They had arrived on a month-long holiday in Morocco on 9 December and travelled to the foothills of Mount Toubkal, North Africa's highest peak, 10km (6 miles) from Imlil. Their bodies were found in their tent. Both women had taken full precautions ahead of their trip, Ms Ueland's mother said last year. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.