The number of people waiting more than nine months is more than eight times higher than at the start of 2020. Figures show 231,722 people waiting more than 36 weeks for treatment to start - nearly 44% of all on the list. The number grew after in March to prepare the NHS for Covid patients. But NHS Wales has been trying to carry on with non-emergency treatments, although the second wave has led to routine surgery being postponed in some hospitals due to pressures, such as and in . The Royal College of Surgeons said the overall number of people waiting for treatment in Wales is the highest number on record - more than half a million patients. So we can now see that by November: Welsh Government targets state 95% of patients should be treated within six months and nobody should wait longer than six months. Along with waiting times figures, the three new "experimental" performance measures for A&E departments, for December: No targets have been set in relation to these measures and the Welsh Government said they were set with input from front-line emergency care staff. New experimental measures of performance The current target is 95% of patients should spend no longer than four hours in A&E, but this has never been met since it was introduced in 2010. The waiting times for A&E in December showed 70% of patients were seen, transferred or discharged within four hours. There were 6,386 patients who waited more than 12 hours, even though the targets state nobody should have to wait that long. This is 1,593 more patients than the month before. Other figures show: The Royal College of Surgeons called the figure "staggering" and "devastating" and called on Wales' seven health boards to start planning "for the recovery of surgery in Wales". "There are more than half a million people on the waiting list overall," said Mr Richard Johnson of the college. "For many patients, a corrective operation is the best way to relieve debilitating pain and get people back up on their feet, back to work and enjoying life again. "Health Boards must start planning now for the recovery of surgery in Wales. We are calling on Welsh Government to urgently implement a clear strategy to eliminate the backlog, supported by sustained investment." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.