David White, 38, was crushed when his vehicle overturned as he worked alone on a weekend shift on a renovation project at an isolated farm property. Mr White's death in October 2016 was outlined at Swansea Crown Court. Two men involved with the firm Mr White worked for - Pro'Conn - pleaded guilty to health and safety charges and were given suspended prison sentences. Project manager and principal designer Graham Kulhamann, 48, of Parcau Road, Bridgend, was sentenced to 21 weeks in prison suspended for 12 months and ordered to pay PS5,000 towards prosecution costs. Director Kevin March, 59, of Fields Park Road, Cardiff, received 32 weeks in prison suspended for 12 months and has to pay PS46,270 in costs. Pro'Conn was responsible for the redevelopment at West Aberthaw Farm in the Vale of Glamorgan, but went into liquidation following the incident on 1 October. The court heard the project was behind schedule and people were working weekend shifts to catch up. Simon Morgan, prosecuting for the Health and Safety Executive (HSE), said grass was found gripped in Mr White's fingers which suggested he had not been killed instantly. Mr Morgan said Mr White had not been wearing a seatbelt - an essential element of the safety of dumper trucks. Following the death the HSE issued a closure notice for the site and launched an investigation. The court heard a catalogue of safety failings and lack of proper plans were found at the site, and that when safety concerns had been raised in the past they had not been acted upon. There had also been a number of "near misses" involving vehicles which had not led to action. Mr Morgan said there had been "insufficient monitoring and supervision" on the site, which was a failing both defendants shared. Judge Paul Thomas QC told the defendants: "In law the buck stops with each of you." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.