Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board Mr Burns' contract was terminated early because of the Covid pandemic, last May. He was nicknamed Marbella Man The health board has been asked to comment on the audit's findings. Adrian Crompton, Auditor General for Wales, examined the process followed by the health board in appointing five interim senior staff between February and October 2019, including Mr Burns. The review found that the daily rate paid to Mr Burns was "above most of the benchmark comparators". The Welsh Government had agreed to contribute PS350,000 towards the cost of the interim recovery director, but played no part in the appointment itself, it also stated. Mr Crompton said Mr Burns's appointment was made by the health board before the funding was confirmed. "My work also found that whilst the health board asserts that competitive rates were negotiated for the appointment, I found that the PS1,890 daily rate being paid by the health board for the interim recovery director post is higher than most of the benchmark comparators that were used by officials during the appointment process," said Mr Crompton. Plaid Cymru's North Wales MS Llyr Gruffydd, has called for a full investigation into the findings that the health board paid over the market rate. Mr Gruffydd said: "Audit Wales has now completed its annual report into the health board's finances and states quite clearly that the daily rate paid to the interim recovery director was higher than most of the benchmark comparators that were used by officials during the appointment process. "So why did a health board in financial difficulties make such a generous offer - especially at a time when it was trying to force nurses to work an extra shift per month without pay?" In 2019, the health board , but the plan was scrapped. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.