The DUP leader said she understood the threat was due to her support for the family of a man beaten to death. Glenn Quinn, 47, was murdered by paramilitaries in Carrickfergus, County Antrim, in January 2020. That attack was carried out by individuals believed to have to links to Mrs Foster said she had by told about the threat by police, adding that her "thoughts and support remains with the Quinn family" who, she said, had "bravely stood up to continued intimidation". "This threat is simply a reflection of what an innocent family have faced for so long now," she said. "There must be no place for such behaviour in any free society and we all must stand against those criminal gangs which continue to operate within our community." In a statement, the Police Service of Northern Ireland said:  "We do not discuss the security of individuals and no inference should be drawn from this. "However, if we receive information that a person's life may be at risk we will inform them accordingly. We never ignore anything which may put an individual at risk." Glenn Quinn was killed after speaking out against on attack on a friend's business. Last September, a reward of PS10,000 was offered for information leading to any convictions in the case. On Tuesday, DUP MP Gavin Robinson said everyone stands "with the first minister and particularly with the Quinn family in the face of such threats". "It is important that we all continue to shine a light on such groups who exist for nothing more than their own criminal purposes," he said. Responding on social media, Alliance leader and Justice Minister Naomi Long said the threats were "absolutely disgraceful" and had come from "thugs and bully boys with nothing to offer anyone but misery". Absolutely disgraceful threat against by thugs and bully boys with nothing to offer anyone but misery. Both Arlene and the Quinn family have my support in standing against these thugs. Anyone with information, please contact the PSNI or  Deputy First Minister Michelle O'Neill said the threats were a "despicable attack on democracy" and said the UDA are a "reckless criminal gang that have absolutely no place in our society". The threats made against Arlene Foster by the UDA are a despicable attack on democracy. The UDA are a reckless criminal gang that have absolutely no place in our society. The PSNI must do all in its power to put these gangs out of business once and for all. SDLP leader Colum Eastwood called the threats "reprehensible". Threats against Arlene Foster by the UDA are reprehensible. Intimidation and threats have no place in our society. It's time for these faceless thugs to go away for good. Ulster Unionist leader Steve Aiken said the threat against Mrs Foster was "abhorrent". "Yet again the so-called 'defenders' of Ulster threaten the democratic process," he said. "The Ulster Unionist Party expresses our support for Arlene Foster in facing down these threats and encourages the community to assist the police so that they have the evidence to end the reign of these thugs, once and for all." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.