The new version of the app brings a richer and more personalised experience of our news content. You will find: You can customise the app by following the topics that are of particular interest for you. There are four ways of adding topics: The key sections are the same ones that can be found on the BBC News website and are managed by editorial teams. The new topic pages are automatically ordered by time of publication, with the latest appearing at the top. A maximum of 25 topics can be followed at any one time. Go to the Add Topics section of the app and tap on the Manage tab. You can also access the same screen by tapping on the Edit icon in the top navigation bar. For UK users only, the app uses a location setting to provide content based on the location of a user. When you go to the Add Topics or Menu screens for the first time you will be asked if you wish to share the location with the app. By agreeing, you will allow the app to detect your location and offer the most relevant BBC News region. You can then choose to follow this region as a favourite topic in My News. If you change location, you will be offered the new location to follow. This will appear in My News along with the previously chosen region. You can switch the use of your location off by going to Settings on your device. Pull down on the main content area that shows you the stories that are available to read. This applies to both the iPad and iPhone versions of the app. You can also refresh an individual story by pulling down on the story body text. The font size controls can be found in the Settings of your device. Please go to Settings, then access General and then Text Size. Tap this button and drag the slider left or right to adjust the font size. Your preference will be remembered for all subsequent story page views. The app gives you the option to post BBC News stories to Facebook, share on Twitter, send a story link via email, or copy the link to your device's clipboard. To access this feature, tap the Share button from any story page - styled as a box with an arrow coming out of it - and select your preferred means of sharing from the menu. Please note that you may be asked to configure a Facebook, Twitter or email account if your chosen sharing method has not already been set up on the device. We have introduced rich sharing which means that you will be sending not only the text but an associated image as well. The app will automatically save stories on the device for reading when you don't have a network connection. As video and audio clips are streamed to the device, these will not be available when you don't have a network connection. You may also find that some images are missing when you are using the app offline. Tap on the Menu icon at the top right-hand side corner of the app and then choose the Settings icon on the left side at the top. You will find options for background refresh, sharing statistics, push notifications, edge swiping and auto-play. Our privacy policy, terms of use and other links are also available here. No. Currently, the BBC offers video and audio clips as streams which are only available when your device has a network connection. UK users need to be covered by a TV licence to watch live TV on your device, that includes the BBC News Channel in the app. A live TV programme is watched or recorded at the same time (or virtually the same time) as it is being broadcast, or otherwise distributed to members of the public. As a general rule, if a person is watching a programme on a computer or other device at the same time as it is being shown on TV then the programme is live. This is sometimes known as simulcasting. You do not need a TV licence if you only use BBC services to watch television programmes which are not live. International users can access BBC World Service radio from the 'Live' tab' free of charge, however your operator may charge you for the amount of data you use. If you are unsure how much data costs on your tariff, contact your network operator. (UK users only) It is a criminal offence to watch live television without a TV licence or to possess or control a device which you know or reasonably believe will be used to watch live TV without a TV licence. You could be prosecuted and fined up to PS1,000 (plus be ordered to pay legal costs) for these offences. To buy a TV licence or to obtain further information about licensing requirements call TV Licensing on 0870 241 5590 or visit These notifications enable you to be alerted to the biggest news stories as they happen. When a push alert is received it will pop up on your screen similar to a text message, regardless of whether or not the app is open at the time. Depending on your settings the alert may also be accompanied by a sound. Tapping the notification will load the corresponding story in the app. The service is available to users with iOS 7 and above, running version two of the BBC News app or higher. To download the latest version, visit the App Store from your device's home screen and tap Updates. When opening the app for the first time you will be presented with a message requesting permission to send you push notifications. Tap OK to subscribe or Don't Allow to decline. This preference can also be changed at any time within your device's notification settings. - To turn notifications off: From your device's home screen, visit Settings > Notifications and select the BBC News app from the list. Ensure all options are set to Off, and Alert Style is None. - To turn notifications on: From the same screen set Alert Style to either Banners or Alerts. Additionally, you can choose whether to display alerts in your device's Notification Centre or lock screen. If you are not receiving notifications but the settings screen suggests they are switched on, it may be necessary to reinitialise the push settings by first turning all alert settings off before turning them on again. By default the BBC News sound is played whenever an alert is received. This can be turned off or re-enabled from your device's notification settings screen (see above). The number of alerts we send out will vary according to the news agenda, however this will typically be between one and three notifications a day. Push notifications are free to receive but may make minimal use of your data plan if delivered via your mobile network provider. By choosing to receive push notification on your mobile apps and you agree to the collection, use and disclosure of information as outlined in our BBC's Privacy and Cookies Policy. We collect, use and share your information as anonymous or aggregate data with third-parties which include ProcessOne and Urban Airship, to provide you with the service. No other personal data relating to you (such as a username or email address) is processed. The BBC will keep your information secure and not share it with anyone else in accordance with the BBC's Privacy and Cookies Policy. This functionality is currently unavailable via the app. But you can still submit your stories and photos via the If you are happy to be contacted by a BBC journalist, please include a telephone number that we can contact you on. In some cases a selection of your comments will be published, displaying your name as you provide it and location, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. When sending us pictures at no time should you endanger yourself or others, take any unnecessary risks or infringe any laws. Please ensure you have read the If you have a comment or suggestion, or a question that isn't covered here, please email in the UK or mobileapps@bbc.co.uk if outside the UK. If you wish to raise a formal complaint about the app, please go to the homepage. We collect statistical data about how the application is used to help us learn what works and what's most useful to you. The more data we can gather, the better we can understand what people want from applications like this. All data is collected anonymously (for example, we won't know what pages a specific person visits, or their location, but we will be able to see general trends about which pages and areas are more popular). Naturally, if you'd prefer us not to collect this data, we won't. To opt out of statistics collection, go to the Settings in your app. You can also do it via your device settings. Scroll down the Settings screen and tap on the BBC News app entry. In the Settings menu set the Share Usage Statistics with the BBC option to OFF. Tap the Settings back arrow to return to the Settings screen and save the changes. The BBC will only use usage statistics information to analyse and improve the services offered through this app. For more information, tap on the Privacy Policy button in Settings. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.