Over the weekend more than 500 cars parked on mountain roads in Snowdonia, with people camping in laybys to hike up Snowdon. In Barmouth visitors blocked a potential rescue by parking on the lifeboat forecourt. The RNLI warned they were "putting lives at risk". Snowdonia National Park Authority said it was holding "urgent talks" to plan and agree a way forward after chaotic scenes near Snowdon. Helen Pye, of SNPA, said staff and volunteers said the number of visitors to Snowdon at the weekend "was nothing like they'd ever seen before". Please DO NOT use the boathouse fore court as a car park. We need this space for crew to park incase of a shout and to get the lifeboats out. You are potentially putting lives at risks parking here.    Snowdonia and the Brecon Beacons national parks were closed at the start of lockdown, . Car parks and paths reopened in Snowdonia on 6 July to visitors for the first time after the stay local travel restrictions were lifted. On Sunday, pictures were shared on social media of cars parked along the side of the mountain road, as people flocked to hike to the highest peak in Wales. At Pen y pass 180 parking fines were issued on Sunday, the said. And by 08:16 BST on Monday, the Pen-y-Pass car park, the closest car park to the summit of Snowdon, in Gwynedd, was again full. Nia Jefferies, who had cycled from nearby Porthmadog on Sunday, said it was "frightening" as people had parked on bends, turning it into a "single track". "There were walkers there, motorbikes there, cyclists and big campervans, and it was down to single file," the Gwynedd councillor said. "It was the worst I've ever seen it, it was so scary, I was frightened." Dydd Sul / Sunday 19th July 2020
Snowdon Sherpa S2 Llanberis - Betws Y Coed
Bus struggling to get through between Pen Y... Ms Jefferies said people were camped in laybys, and the could not get through due to the "reckless parking". Hundreds of people were fined by police, but with the fine only being about PS30, Ms Jefferies said it was not a deterrent. "People just think they want to go up it because it is the highest mountain in Wales, but there are so many other places," she added, calling for Visit Wales to actively promote other routes. Ms Jefferies said while business owners were desperate for tourists to return to the area, people needed to respect the national park and think about the consequences of their actions. "We are lucky we have the scenery, I know lockdown has been hard for people living in cities, but people are not respecting the environment or other people," she said. "It was just so haphazard, fancy stopping on a mountain on a bend, and not thinking about the consequences, and just going for a walk, it's so selfish." Plaid Cymru politicians said the scenes were "truly shocking" and called for a park and ride scheme to be brought in urgently. "Nothing can excuse the behaviour of those who wantonly abandoned their vehicles on an exceptionally busy stretch of the A4086," they said in a statement. "What events over the weekend underscored is that we cannot wait any longer for a lasting solution to this problem." Snowdonia National Park Authority, Gwynedd and Conwy councils have been reviewing parking and transport for the area. Ms Jefferies said having a park and ride service could be a solution, to get people to spend in villages and towns, or passes for local residents. In Barmouth, Gwynedd, the RNLI said people had parked outside the lifeboat station, blocking spaces for volunteers. In a tweet the service said: "We need this space for crew to park in case of a shout and to get the lifeboats out. "You are potentially putting lives at risks parking here." A number of complaints received today in relation to families leaving large amounts of rubbish on The Great Orme.
This... Concerns have also been raised about litter left in beauty spots since restrictions were eased, and visitors returned to popular beaches and mountains. North Wales Police said the amount of litter being left on The Great Orme, Llandudno, by people picnicking was "unacceptable" at the weekend. Snowdonia National Park Authority said they were holding urgent talks with partners, including police and other national parks. Helen Pye, of SNPA, said: "We've had things in place to cope with a busy period as lockdown eases, but there's only so much that one mountain can take. "It's almost as if people are working out their pent up longing for open spaces and the countryside. "It's lovely that people want to come and visit, but we do need everyone to check the car park situation before they arrive and park sensibly when they do. "Once people are on the mountain, everything seems fine. Our wardens at the top of Snowdon itself say that there are queues for the summit, but people are being good natured and are social distancing." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.