In a letter to parents, the head teacher of Ysgol Gyfun Gymraeg Plasmawr said two pupils, two teachers and an assistant had tested positive. The school had said previously there were six cases among pupils. Public Health Wales said 298 pupils and 279 staff from 334 schools had received a positive test result since 1 September. At Ysgol Plasmawr a whole year group and 35 staff members are now self-isolating because of the positive tests. In his letter, head teacher John Hayes said: "Currently there are 35 members of staff who are having to self-isolate as they have been in close contact with our Covid-19 cases during their infectious period. He said all pupils in Years 7, 8 and 9, 12 and 13 would study from home from Tuesday 6 October to Friday 16 October. Years 10 and 11 will continue to attend school and follow their normal timetable. At the Welsh Government coronavirus briefing, Health Minister Vaughan Gething said there was no evidence of Covid-19 spreading at schools. So far transmission has "taken place outside of the school" or between "adults working in the school", he said, adding that about 80% of Welsh schools had had no cases. On the issue of schools sending whole year groups home to self-isolate, he added: "That's a challenge about how successful each school is in getting people to maintain social distance or to have in-school bubbles so if a whole year group is mixing then a positive case means a whole year group needs to isolate. "That's why the efforts of school leaders and local authorities have gone to to try to create an environment where people don't mix across and within year groups where possible and for staff to follow the rules on social distancing at work are really important. "I am comfortable it's been the right thing to do." Meanwhile, Denbighshire Council said 22 Year 6 pupils and two members of staff at Christ the Word Catholic School, Rhyl, must also self-isolate until 14 October after a case there. Two members of staff and 14 pupils from nursery and reception classes at Ysgol Bryn Collen, Llangollen, must also self-isolate until 14 October after a positive case. On Anglesey, the council confirmed a case at a fifth primary school, with a pupil of Ysgol Parc y Bont, Llanddaniel Fab, testing positive. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.