The UK's chief medical officers have lowered the recommended maximum weekly number of units for adults. The new advice says men and women who drink regularly should consume no more than 14 units a week - equivalent to six pints of beer or seven glasses of wine - with some alcohol-free days each week, while pregnant women should not drink at all We've been asking you whether this new advice is going to change how you drink. A short and to the point response came from and . welcomed the new information, while was thinking of changing the amount she drank. Commenting at the bottom a BBC article on the issue, was considering stopping altogether. "I think the message about limiting your alcohol intake is that it makes you healthier. "I don't particularly want to live older, but I do want to live a life as full as I can. "I quit smoking four or five years ago, and now I want to try and give up alcohol because I was bordering on alcoholic, as I was drinking every night, every day. "I want to feel better, not sluggish and stupid like when I drunk." and explained in Facebook posts why they would be unlikely to change their drinking habits. Some people thought the new limits were evidence of the "nanny state". "Common sense and a little of what you fancy has always been the best advice for eating and drinking. That and the nanny state minding its own business, rather than adding to our stressful lives, with its 'latest advice' (before it changes again), would make us all happier and healthier." wrote in the comments section of a BBC article. While Matthew Crisafi : reminded people on Facebook it was only a recommendation and could be ignored. Others had a more light-hearted outlook on the advice, with Rick Fleming commenting he'd have to get drunk tonight to stop worrying about his drinking. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.