The number of people on UK payrolls in August was about 695,000 lower than in March 2020. In the May to July quarter there was a particularly significant drop in the number of young people in employment. Overall, the unemployment rate grew to 4.1%, up from the previous figure of 3.9%. However, the ONS said the number of job vacancies continued to recover into August, fewer workers were on furlough and average hours worked rose. The furlough scheme comes to an end on 31 October, meaning those job numbers could get much worse. . It would be similar to that in Germany - - rewarding employers who give people hours rather than cut jobs; providing training and support for those who can't come back full time, and targeting sectors most in need such as retail and aviation. The government says it's already implementing a plan to protect jobs - due to staff having to self-isolate for days because they can't get tests for themselves or family members. Some patients are also not being tested in time for operations to go ahead, they say. with head teachers warning of serious staff shortages and parents forced to keep children at home for days. The government says it's processing 200,000 tests a day on average and is working to boost that even further, with most capacity directed towards virus hotspots. Experts say the number of people drinking at higher-risk levels in England rose to more than 8.4m in June - up from 4.8m in February - and the impact of that could be huge. the Royal College of Psychiatrists is warning, and when increased demand due to the pandemic meets deep cuts already made, the result will be many patients missing out on life-saving care. The BBC is taking a close look today at the challenges of finding work during the pandemic. If you're struggling or know someone who is, get some inspiration from Beauty box subscriptions, takeaway food, date night "kits" - they're succeeding despite the downturn. and advice on the sectors hiring right now. Find more information, advice and guides on our . Plus, as the UK's Jewish community prepares to celebrate its most important festivals of the year, . Use this form to ask your question: If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the to submit your question or send them via email to . Please include your name, age and location with any question you send in. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.