Tony Chadbourne, known as Chad, just before Christmas. The 46-year-old worked for East Midlands Ambulance Service (EMAS) in the Nottinghamshire and Lincolnshire Divisions for 23 years. His funeral took place in Keyworth, Nottinghamshire, with a procession through the town and colleagues holding a minute's silence at the same time. EMAS said Mr Chadbourne is their only paramedic - and staff member - known to have died with Covid-19. His colleagues observed a minute's silence wherever they were, to coincide with the start of the funeral service at St Mary Magdalene church. Members of the public were invited to do the same. Mr Chadbourne's family have described him as "an NHS hero" who had three major loves in his life - his family and friends, watching Nottingham Forest and England play football, and his role as a paramedic. Ahead of the service, a funeral procession went through Keyworth, past the main square and paused at Keyworth United Football Club, where Mr Chadbourne was a former player. People along the route were encouraged to wear something red, white or green as a nod to his love of Nottingham Forest and the ambulance service. His life was celebrated by the club on Wednesday night before their game against Middlesbrough, with the players wearing warm-up T-shirts featuring his picture. A tribute also featured in the matchday programme and a minute's applause took place before Forest's . Your spot in the Upper Bridgford [?] We'll miss you, Tony.  The club said Mr Chadbourne first attended a match in 1980 and in 2007 after he collapsed in the dressing room. Twenty people attended the funeral service, with 30 allowed under current An EMAS spokesperson said: "Unfortunately, due to current restrictions, we will not be able to mark the day as we would have liked to." eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.