The BBC News website is the internet arm of the biggest broadcasting newsgatherer in the world. It launched in November 1997 and has since published more than two million full multimedia news pages, all but a handful of which are still available from the site's search engine (top right of almost every page). Each page is published by the teams of online journalists based in the main newsroom in New Broadcasting House in central London, in national and regional newsrooms across England, in Glasgow, Belfast and Cardiff, and in an increasing number of the BBC's many international bureaux worldwide. Much of the material is written by these journalists and the rest comes from writers in the BBC's specialist units, covering everything from business and social affairs to foreign news. Many of the BBC's correspondents operating worldwide also contribute as well as those at BBC Monitoring. Non-BBC journalists are frequently commissioned to contribute. The BBC Sport website, produced by BBC Sport, is fully integrated with the BBC News site, using the same technology and delivery platforms and edited in partnership. A wide variety of sources is used in the preparation of material - including BBC News, BBC World Service and a large number of internationally recognised news agencies. They include the Press Association, Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse. Any content specified as Reuters content is the intellectual property of Reuters. Any copying, republication or redistribution of such Reuters content, including by cacheing, framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters and Reuters Sphere logo are trade marks and registered trade marks of the Reuters Group of companies around the world. BBC Monitoring, based in Caversham in southern England, selects and translates information from radio, television, press, news agencies and the Internet from 150 countries in more than 70 languages. Sources, and terms and conditions for the use of the BBC News website's financial data All financial data carried by the BBC News website enjoy indicative status only. The BBC accepts no responsibility for their accuracy or for any use to which they may be put. The market data is provided by , and is only for your general information and use and is not intended to address your particular requirements. The market data does not constitute any form of advice, recommendation or arrangement by Digital Look and is not intended to be relied upon by you in making (or refraining from making) any specific investment or other decisions. Appropriate independent advice should be obtained before making any such decision. You acknowledge and agree that you bear responsibility for your own investment research and investment decisions, and that Digital Look shall not be held liable by you or any others for any decision made or action taken by you or others based upon reliance on or use of information or materials obtained or accessed through use of the Content. Investors should be aware that prices may fall as well as rise and that the income derived can go down as well as up. When buying or selling any investment that fluctuates in price or value you may get back less than you invested. Past performance is not necessarily a guide to future performance. Any arrangements made between you and any third party named in this market data are at your sole risk and responsibility. The market data is protected by copyright, trademarks and other intellectual property and proprietary rights. Republication or redistribution of Digital Look Ltd content, including by caching, framing or similar means is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Digital Look Ltd. Although all reasonable effort has been made by Digital Look Ltd and its suppliers in collecting and maintaining the market data, neither Digital Look nor its supplies give any warranties as to the accuracy, completeness, timeliness, integrity or fitness for purpose of the market data. Neither Digital Look Ltd nor its suppliers, if any, shall in any circumstances be liable whether in contract tort or otherwise for any consequential or indirect loss or damage or for any loss of profits or of contracts howsoever arising through negligence or otherwise and of whatsoever nature suffered or incurred directly or indirectly by you.  Click for more details of Digital Look's terms and conditions. Financial data from the London stock market is copyrighted by and published with permission of the London Stock Exchange. Financial data from the Paris, Brussels and Amsterdam stock exchanges is copyrighted by and published with permission of Euronext NV. Financial data from the Frankfurt stock exchange is copyrighted by and published with permission of Deutsche Boerse AG. London Metal Exchange data for cash and three-month prices are mid-values calculated by the BBC and based on data supplied by the LME. The Dow Jones Index is compiled, calculated and distributed by Dow Jones & Company, Inc. and has been licensed for use. All content of the Dow Jones Indexes is copyrighted by Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Dow Jones and its affiliates, sources and distribution agents shall not be liable for any loss or damage whatsoever arising from any inaccuracy, incompleteness or delays in the delivery of the index. The Dow Jones parties do not make any warranties to readers with respect to the timeliness, sequence, accuracy, completeness, currentness, quality or fitness of the data. Data supplied through the Chicago Mercantile Exchange are proprietary and may not be copied, disseminated or used without the express written permission of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. Any content specified as Microsoft Virtual Earth content is the intellectual property of Microsoft Corporation and third party suppliers. Any copying, republication or redistribution of such Microsoft content, including by cacheing, framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Microsoft. Additional information on Microsoft Virtual Earth and its third party suppliers can be found on . Aerial imagery of the United Kingdom on Microsoft Virtual Earth is the intellectual property of Getmapping PLC . The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.