One image shows Prince William, who turned 38 on Sunday, being jumped on by Prince George, aged six, Princess Charlotte, five, and Prince Louis, two. Another shows the children posing with their father on a swing at Anmer Hall on the Sandringham estate in Norfolk. Both scenes were captured earlier this month by the Duchess of Cambridge. A third photograph taken by Catherine, showing a beaming William with his arm around his father Prince Charles, was released by Clarence House to wish the duke a happy birthday. William's birthday is the latest in what has been a busy birthday season for the royals, since the UK went into lockdown due to coronavirus. Pictures, also taken by keen photographer Catherine, have been released to mark Charlotte and Louis' birthdays recently. Last month, new photographs showed the young princess . Prince Louis was also pictured in April - a symbol of hope during the lockdown. The pair were also joined by their eldest brother George to join with the first Clap for Carers event in March, to applaud NHS staff and care workers. William spoke about fatherhood during a BBC documentary on mental health last month. , he said having children was the "biggest life-changing moment" and described fatherhood as a "very different phase of life" to his younger days. Asked about becoming a father, he added: "I think when you've been through something traumatic in life - and that is like you say your dad not being around, my mother dying when I was younger - your emotions come back in leaps and bounds because it's a very different phase of life. "And there's no one there to, kind of, help you, and I definitely found it very, at times, overwhelming." Prince Charles, has also marked Father's Day, writing on Twitter: "Whether you are a Father, a Dad, a Daddy or a Pa, wishing you a Happy Father's Day!" The post featured an archive photograph of Charles with his own sons - William and the Duke of Sussex - in matching polo shirts. A second picture showed a young Charles being held by his father, the Duke of Edinburgh, in the 1950s. Whether you are a Father, a Dad, a Daddy or a Pa, wishing you a Happy Father's Day! Prince Philip and the Queen, who are both currently shielding at Windsor Castle, have also celebrated birthdays recently. The Queen made to mark her official birthday last week. And the Duke of Edinburgh posed with the Queen in an official photograph released two weeks ago as he turned 99. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.