The National Fire Protection Association recommends that animal owners in at-risk areas have evacuation plans for animals in place, but because of how urgent some orders were, many were unable to return home for their pets and other animals. Residents have been using social media to spread images of their lost animals around the internet. Dedicated accounts, groups and hashtags have also been set up by online volunteers to help reunite pets with their owners. If this is your doggy, they are at the West Valley Animal shelter on Plummer!  As tens of thousands of acres burn cross the state, images have emerged of animals being evacuated. On Friday, some residents living close to the Woolsey Fire ravaging the Malibu area took their large animals down to a local beach for protection. Local fire officials opened up Zuma Beach as an evacuation point for large animals, leading to surreal scenes on the usual spot for tourists. Wally Skahlij, a photographer for the Los Angeles Times, took a set of striking photographs on the beach, including one of an owl resting in the sand as the fire engulfed the skyline. Actress Alyssa Milano appealed to her Twitter followers on Friday to try and get help for her five horses to safety. If anyone can get 5 horses out the fire please help me. She was among the hundreds of thousands of California residents who have had to evacuate their homes across the state. The wildfire season usually starts in summer and runs into early autumn there, but recent low humidity, dry conditions and warm fast-moving winds have created ideal conditions for blazes to spread. In Paradise, a town north of Sacramento, thousands of buildings have been destroyed and at least 29 people are known to have died, with more than 200 others still unaccounted for. Despite the widespread destruction, some pets have been recovered there alive, giving hope to survivors who are still missing theirs. A Shasta County Coroner's Office crew looking for remains of people killed in the in Paradise found a cat in the ashes of a home. She said, "It's nice to be able to find something alive in all this. It's not often I'm part of a rescue. It's always recovery."  As I was getting into Paradise this morning I came across a firefighter who found an injured cat. He was holding tightly onto the cat while animal control arrived.    The effort is complicated because often animals caught up in fires flee or hide, especially when injured. as volunteers use elaborate baiting techniques to try and recapture the animals. Around Butte County where the November fires have been the most deadly, emergency workers and volunteers, including the North Valley Animal Disaster Group, have been going into the affected areas to give emergency supplies to larger farm animals that had to be been left behind. Volunteer Rick Anderson assists two horses in Paradise. These horses were later trailered to the large animal shelter. Local animal services across California have urged people who are able to adopt or foster pets from shelters to do so in order to make room for those being brought in on an emergency basis. Yolo County Animal Services officers and CHP found lost burned injured dog in rubble of Paradise.    PC: Yolo County Animal Services.  Some that have been rescued have been found with extensive burns, complicating reunification efforts. Several online fundraising appeals have been set up to pay veterinary bills for animals that have been found with burn injuries. : Great news.. a wonderful viewer has stepped up and started a GoFundMe for the burned cat. Vet bills will be around $4-5000. The family lost everything. Every penny counts. Let's help them get through this! -->  Female maybe 2yo calico. No collar, no microchip. Bought into Valley Oak Veterinary Center by north valley animal disaster relief for assessment. She has 4 white paws. She is stable and was sent back to the Chico airport where NVADRG shelter is   In some places, veterinarians have been working in groups to try and treat injured and lost animals for free. People who are missing their animals have been advised to check designated local rescue points - including airports and even casinos - where animals are being taken on an emergency basis. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.