The historic agreement, which came into force in 2016, united nearly 200 countries in a global pact to tackle climate change. President Trump announced his intention to leave the deal, in 2017, saying letting countries such as India and China use fossil fuels while the US had to curb its carbon . The withdrawal - by chance, the day after he lost the presidential election. The US, which has historically released more greenhouse gases into the atmosphere than any other nation, is the only one to have withdrawn. The new administration has signed a statement accepting the terms of the agreement. It was sent to the United Nations, and the US is now set to formally re-enter the agreement in 30 days. President Biden has pledged to make the fight against climate change a top priority of his administration and rejoin the agreement. His special envoy on climate change, John Kerry, tweeted that Biden was "restoring America's credibility and commitment" and that the world "must and will raise ambition" to tackle global warming. US engagement is seen as critical to the success of key global climate talks in Glasgow in November. The 2021 annual conference of the parties (Cop) is expected to finalise the rules of how the Paris agreement will operate in future. And countries are expected to update their national carbon-cutting plans with tougher targets than they submitted in 2015. The US will have to rebuild trust after being out of the climate fold for so long, observers say. And much depends on action being taken to roll back changes made by the Trump administration The president has , including to: He has appointed former Secretary of State John Kerry as special climate envoy. He has also , which would have carried oil 1,200 miles from Alberta, in Canada, to Nebraska, in the US With the US re-entering the Paris agreement, there were reasons for optimism, former EU Commissioner for Climate Action Connie Hedegaard, who chairs the KR Foundation, said. "There is a real possibility of having a real restart of the whole global climate agenda now," she said. Republic of the Marshall Islands climate envoy Tina Eonemto Stege said the world was looking to the Biden administration to reinvigorate commitment to the agreement. But she warned only 45 countries had submitted their emission targets within the 2020 deadline. "We are playing catch-up," she said. "We're in a deep hole. "As it did in 2016, the US is really central to driving ambition and action, not just by re-joining the Paris agreement but also by submitting an enhanced NDC that is aligned with the 1.5C temperature goal as soon as possible." Follow Helen on . The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.