The venues around Breck Road in Poulton-le-Fylde shut temporarily "due to a recent rise of positive cases". They all posted the same statement on social media saying it was a "difficult, but sensible decision". Boca Cafe Bar, Rumba Bar, The Tipsy Cow and Cinco's Mexican Restaurant in Breck Road and cocktail bar The Alley on Breck Mews are all closed. It comes as businesses such as soft play areas, gyms and casinos in parts of Lancashire, Greater Manchester and West Yorkshire were on Tuesday, but new plans were announced to in England amid a rise in cases. Current data shows the number of positive cases have tripled in the Fylde coast market town in the week between 29 August and 5 September, with 16 new cases equating to 14.3 per 100,000 population. In the previous week it had five cases. "Due to the recent rise of positive cases of Covid-19 in the area, we have made the difficult, but sensible decision to close our venue for this week," the statements posted on Facebook said. "Our main priority and concern making this decision is the safety of our customers and staff. "We are working closely with other venues and following the correct government guidelines and policies to ensure that we can reopen in the safest possible way." The venues said all bookings would be cancelled for this weekend and the decision would be reviewed next week. Wyre Council leader councillor David Henderson praised the businesses for contacting the council as soon as they became aware of the outbreak. "These establishments have all worked hard to keep their staff and customers safe since they reopened and have followed all government guidance," he said. Dr Sakthi Karunanithi, director of Public Health at Lancashire County Council, added:, "Wyre still has very low infection rates however it is more important than ever that we all work together now to follow government guidance." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.