With a new, more contagious variant of Covid circulating in the UK, unions representing doctors and nurses are calling for . Anyone in close contact with patients should wear some form of protection. That includes staff working in care homes, prisons and the community, as well as in GP surgeries or hospitals. People giving vaccines will also use PPE. The type of PPE required depends on the level of risk. Face coverings, unlike surgical face masks, as they: say all hospital staff in both clinical and non-clinical roles should wear a face mask, while people visiting hospital or attending outpatient departments should wear some sort of face covering. In hospitals, anyone working within 2m (6ft) of a confirmed or suspected Covid-19 patient should wear an apron, gloves, a surgical mask and eye protection. Clinicians carrying out tasks that could generate airborne droplets of saliva loaded with the virus should use an even higher standard of protection, including disposable gowns, filtering respirators and face-shielding visors. That would include intensive care doctors getting a patient ready to go on a ventilator to support their breathing. Ambulance staff driving the ambulance (if the cab is closed off from the patient compartment) do not need to wear any PPE. The rest of the crew should wear PPE appropriate to the likely level of exposure they face. Pharmacy staff who cannot keep 2m away from possible patients should wear a surgical mask. Some staff in other higher-risk occupations like and may need to use PPE and should follow guidelines. The amount the health service needs each month runs into billions of items. There are about 1.6 million NHS staff in UK hospitals and the community, who need varying amounts of PPE depending on the type of work they do. PPE ordering is done on a UK-wide level, but different parts of the NHS has different levels of stock. The government says 32 billion items, including masks, visors and gowns, have been bought and four-month PPE stockpiles will be in place for NHS frontline staff from November. Almost three quarters of expected demand for PPE will be met by UK manufacturers from December, it says. Before coronavirus, in 2019, the NHS and social care sector in England received around 2.43 billion items of PPE. Since the start of the pandemic, more than 5.6 billion items of PPE have been delivered to the health and social care system in the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC) confirmed on 8 December 2020. The figure includes body bags, swabs, clinical waste containers, cleaning equipment and detergent as well as masks, gowns and gloves. A delivered in the week up to 6 November 2020 included: Since March, in the NHS in . In the week up to 30 December, this included: Since March, nearly have been delivered to the health and social care sectors in . In the week up to 20 December, this included: In more than have been sent between March and the end of November 2020. In the week up to 27 November, this included: Some bits of kit can only be used once per patient. Others can be used for whole sessions, such as during a ward round visit to many patients. All PPE worn during the highest-risk situations - where there will be lots of splatter from infectious droplets - should be single use, unless they can be decontaminated. Aprons, gloves and surgical masks should usually be disposed of after a single use or session. When there are shortages, , even if it is labelled as single use by the manufacturer. The Health and Safety Executive says it recognises "some compromise" is needed when there are extreme shortages of kit. For example, some gowns could be washed by the hospital laundry and reused. The and the say PPE guidance should be updated to take a more precautionary approach. Both say members can refuse to treat patients as a "last resort" if adequate PPE has not been provided. UK anaesthetic and intensive care bodies says doctors should carefully evaluate the risks before taking a decision about whether to provide care. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.