From the start of 2021, European Union (EU) citizens will be treated the same way as those from the rest of the world. When the UK was an EU member, people from EU countries had an automatic right to work in the UK. Taking control of immigration was one of the key themes of the Leave campaign in the 2016 referendum. The new system for work visas will be based on points. To qualify for a visa, migrant workers who want to move to the UK will have to qualify for 70 points. Having a job offer from an approved employer for a skilled job will earn 40 points. Being able to speak English will give another 10 points. The applicant can achieve the remaining 20 points if they are due to be paid at least PS25,600 a year. They can also gain extra points for having better qualifications (10 points for a relevant PhD, or 20 points for a PhD in science, technology, engineering or maths) or an offer of a job in which the UK has a shortage (20 points), even if it doesn't pay as much money. Certain jobs in health or education still merit 20 points even if the salary is less than PS25,600. The applicant must be paid at least PS20,480, and in line with set amounts for particular jobs in the UK's four nations. Applications may be , but some people will need to visit a visa application centre in order to prove their identity and show necessary documents. These might include a certificate of sponsorship from a proposed UK employer, and proof of knowledge of English. The will depend on how many years the job seeker plans to work in the UK, and whether their job is of skills that the UK has shortages of - for instance, vets and web designers. If their skills are not on that list then the standard fee will be between PS610 and PS1,408 per person. Jobseekers will also have to pay a health surcharge of PS624 per person per year when they apply - that money is refunded if they don't get a visa. And they will need to show that they have the means to support themselves in the UK, which usually involves having at least PS1,270 available. There is a fast-track entry system for doctors, nurses and other healthcare professionals. Most care workers will not be covered by the scheme though. Those eligible for this visa will pay reduced fees and be supported through the application process. Successful applicants will be exempt from the immigration health surcharge. Applicants via this route will still have to meet the relevant skill level and salary thresholds. There will be no limit on the number of international students who can come to the UK to study. The new allows them to apply six months before they are due to start a course if they are applying from outside the UK. A new graduate visa will be launched in summer 2021, to allow students who have completed a degree to stay in the UK for two years. This will rise to three years for those who have done a PhD. Citizen of EU countries who were living in the UK before the end of 2020 can apply for the . They have until 30 June 2021 to apply for settled status. There are also different schemes for some workers - for example, there is a Global Talent, Innovator and Start-Up visa. The government says this is designed to attract "those who have an exceptional talent or show exceptional promise in the fields of engineering, science, tech or culture". The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.