Seven properties where parties were being held were visited by officers on Thursday night and the early hours of Friday morning. At one apartment, officers discovered more than 30 people, three of whom tried to hide by locking themselves in a bathroom. Those issued with notices mostly had home addresses from across NI. Ch Insp Gavin Kirkpatrick said it was "disappointing and frustrating that some people continue to disregard clear and specific advice, guidance and warnings". Police patrols in the Holyland have been stepped up as students returned ahead of university resuming next week. Ch Insp Kirkpatrick said police would continue to dedicate "substantial resources" to police the area and would work alongside the council and the universities to address the ongoing issues. There have already been and complaints from residents . Political parties have called for greater intervention in the Holyland to prevent student house parties and the spread of infection. Ch Insp Kirkpatrick said while a large number of people were acting responsibly, police would "robustly address all incidents of antisocial of criminal activity". He added: "Once again, I am warning young people who have moved to the Holyland area and those who are visiting the area, you all share responsibility to adhere to the Health Protection Regulations to protect yourselves and others from Covid-19. "The young people congregating or travelling to this area really need to consider their actions for their own health and that of the community of this residential area." Both Ulster University (UU) and Queen's University have warned . Queen's president Professor Ian Greer also said those who break regulations risk "substantial penalties". A UU statement said students face sanctions "up to and including expulsion". The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.