to send their children back to school when classes reopen in England, Wales and Northern Ireland. The PM said it was "vitally important" to get back to face-to-face learning and the risk to teachers and pupils of contracting coronavirus was "very small". Unions, though, say schools still need more guidance. Children in Scotland have already returned, so And and further support is vital to prevent even more redundancies and company closures. That's the message from industry body Abta. It says the pandemic has already claimed about 39,000 jobs and "the government's stop-start measures" around quarantine restrictions have meant "the restart of travel has not gone as hoped". Health charities are urging the government to update its alcohol strategy after a steep rise in the number of people seeking help for drink problems during the lockdown. One helpline says it has received almost 7,000 calls in England and Scotland since March. how his drinking escalated when he found himself isolated and anxious during the pandemic. and people of all ages can take part in organised outdoor contact sports. Live events such as concerts and comedy will be permitted outdoors in Scotland, and driving lessons can resume. Some of the tighter local restrictions imposed in Aberdeen three weeks ago due to a spike in virus cases today. Much of the debate around schools has focused on the detrimental impact of closures on children's wellbeing. However, suggests anxiety levels among 13 and 14-year-olds actually fell during lockdown. Researchers at the University of Bristol said the results were a "big surprise" and raised questions about the impact of the school environment - pressure, peer relationships and so on - on teenagers' mental health. Find more information, advice and guides on our . Plus, 10 countries in the world have no confirmed cases (excluding North Korea and Turkmenistan), but can they call themselves winners? . Use this form to ask your question: If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the to submit your question or send them via email to . Please include your name, age and location with any question you send in. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.