Closing schools to tackle coronavirus puts children's lives on hold and should be kept to an "absolute minimum", . The government said are a "last resort" to curb infections. But writing , Ofsted chief inspector Amanda Spielman said: "It is increasingly clear that children's lives can't just be put on hold while we wait for vaccination programmes to take effect, and for waves of infection to subside." She spoke out as teaching unions continue to pressure the government to keep all schools in England shut after the Christmas holidays, amid . The editor of the British Medical Journal to correct a "seriously misleading" article that claims UK guidelines allow two Covid-19 vaccines to be mixed. The US publication reported that UK health officials were allowing patients to be given a second dose that is different to their first. But BMJ editor Fiona Godlee said the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation . The rollout of Covid-19 vaccines has led to a spate of new false claims about vaccines. When dentist Andy Bates offered to help administer the coronavirus vaccine, . Dr Bates, from North Yorkshire, is one of a number of health staff to criticise the paperwork needed to gain NHS approval to give the and vaccines. Some medics have been asked for proof they are trained in areas such as preventing radicalisation. When her 66-year-old father died of Covid, Angelina Proia was left blindsided by his absence and the feeling that her government and fellow citizens had abandoned her. "I feel like my country has turned its back on us," she said. Exercising outside this winter could help boost our mood and reduce anxiety during the pandemic, a sports expert has said. Ruth Lowry, an exercise psychologist at the University of Essex, has researched the effects of staying active during the colder months and said being in natural light boosted vitamin D which was "very important for things like our immune system [and] for our bone health". Watch the video below for more - and you can also Find more information, advice and guides on our . From the race to roll out coronavirus vaccinations around the world, to other concerns such as mental health and measles, . Use this form to ask your question: If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the to submit your question or send them via email to . Please include your name, age and location with any question you send in. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.