Sunday appointments in Bridgend, Rhondda, Abercynon and Merthyr Tydfil were rescheduled for safety reasons, but centres will reopen on Monday, the Cwm Taf Morgannwg health board said. The Met Office has extended a yellow to midnight on Sunday for all of Wales except Anglesey. A from midnight until 11:00 GMT on Monday. Police have warned of difficult conditions due to snow and ice. Up to 3cm of snow is forecast to fall in most areas, with 10 to 15cm expected in the Brecon Beacons and Snowdonia. Cwm Taf Morgannwg health board urged anyone with queries about Sunday's vaccination appointments to call the number on their appointment letters. "We can confirm that no vaccines have been wasted as a consequence of this temporary Sunday closure and we are grateful to all those who were able to turn up at such short notice yesterday as we brought forward a significant number of Sunday appointments during the course of Saturday," it said. "Additionally, our 4x4 arrangements are enabling us to continue to reach care homes to vaccinate the staff and residents there." [?][?]Snow Warning - in both directions from J22 Pilning/Prince of Wales Bridge to J49 Pont Abraham[?][?] Poor driving conditions on the this morning. Please avoid travelling unless absolutely essential.  there was "widespread snow this morning, particularly in some higher areas, making driving conditions difficult". Traffic Wales' showed snow across the roads network. And Dyfed-Powys Police and advised people to "stay home". In Bridgend, officers from South Wales Police were pelted with snowballs as they helped an injured sledger on Heol y Nant. North Wales Police warned of difficult conditions due to "widespread snow", particularly on high ground. It said the A499 near Pwllheli had received heavy snowfall overnight. , thanking the public for helping crews continue to work despite the conditions. Some challenging weather conditions across Wales today for colleagues on duty looking out for our communities. Thank you to local residents helping our people help you and to all our colleagues and volunteers out keeping everyone safe. The Met Office warned travellers that "longer journey times by road, bus and train services" could be expected, although Wales is in a level four lockdown with all but essential travel banned. It also said the snow could lead to power cuts and other services, such as mobile phone coverage, may be affected. Those going out for daily exercise have been warned there could be icy patches on some untreated roads, pavements and cycle paths. The drop in temperatures is likely to exacerbate problems after widespread flooding caused by Storm Christoph. Two flood warnings issued by Natural Resources Wales remain in place, meaning flooding is expected. These cover the River Ritec at Tenby in Pembrokeshire, which could affect the Kiln Park caravan site, and the lower Dee Valley from Llangollen to Trevalyn Meadows. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.