Rubbish piled up in areas including Cornwall, Dorset, Birmingham, London and the Peak District. Many public areas were busy due to coinciding with prolonged sunshine. Clean Up Britain described the images as "truly appalling and inexcusable". At Formby beach near Liverpool, people left food wrappers and drinks cans along with bigger items like cool boxes and chairs on the sand. In Cornwall, Bodmin Community Fire Station commented on a picture of rubbish, saying: "Bodmin Moor is a beautiful place to visit but please show some respect. This is simply unacceptable." Bodmin Moor is a beautiful place to visit but please show some respect. This is simply unacceptable. Also in Cornwall, police issued a where large gatherings left piles of litter on Summerleaze beach. John Read from Clean Up Britain said littering is always a problem, but "the very warm weather meant large numbers of people flocked to beaches, parks and beauty spots, no doubt with a sense of relief and joy that they were allowed out". He added: "What sort of mindset allows people to enjoy the beauty of Britain while at the same time trashing it?" Crowds of visitors have left mounds of litter including used toilet roll and nappies at such as Ilkley. Erwin van Vroenhoven posted pictures on Facebook showing "unbelievable" amounts of waste at the Stepping Stones of Dovedale in the Peak District. He said: "I understand people want to get out to the countryside after lock down, with beautiful weather and with nothing else open, but I don't understand why people wouldn't take their rubbish home and litter all across a beautiful spot like this!" In Cannon Hill Park, Birmingham, West Midlands Fire Service helped to clear up rubbish described by local resident Mark Busby as "absolutely disgusting". Epping Forest, London's largest open space, was busy and some people left rubbish behind prompting City of London Council to remind people "this ancient woodland is not a dustbin". At Durdle Door in Dorset, and people were evacuated from the busy beach, leaving much of their rubbish behind. Anna Lois Taylor commented that is was a "staggering amount of litter and heartbreaking to see our beautiful coast treated this way". The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.