It follows some criticism after footage of Friday's event was posted on Twitter by an audience member. Ms Tlaib, also a Democrat, led the booing in response to Ms Clinton saying in a documentary that "nobody likes" presidential hopeful Bernie Sanders. Ms Tlaib later said that she had allowed her feelings about Ms Clinton's remarks "to get the best of me". "I know what is at stake if we don't unify over one candidate to beat [President Donald] Trump and I intend to do everything possible to ensure that Trump does not win in 2020," she tweeted. "In this instance, I allowed my disappointment with Secretary Clinton's latest comments about Senator Sanders and his supporters get the best of me. You all, my sisters-in-service on stage, and our movement deserve better." The Michigan representative was taking part in a panel event with fellow Democratic congresswomen Pramila Jayapal and Ilhan Omar, held at a folk music concert in Iowa on Friday. BREAKING: At a rally in Iowa tonight, a leading Sanders' surrogate led the crowd in booing . When moderator Dionna Langford brought up the escalating feud between Ms Clinton and Senator Sanders, members of the audience began to boo. Ms Langford interrupted and said: "We're not going to boo, we're classy here." At this point Ms Tlaib interjected: "No, no, I'll boo." As Ms Jayapal and Ms Omar laughed, Ms Tlaib added: "You all know I can't be quiet. No, we're going to boo. That's all right, the haters will shut up on Monday when we win." Monday's caucuses will be the first formal test this year of Democratic voters' preferences. Senator Sanders is the frontrunner, with a slight lead ahead of his nearest rival, former Vice President Joe Biden. Ms Tlaib's booing attracted a mixed reaction online. Neera Tanden, president of the Center for American Progress, said that it reminded her of President Trump's supporters chanting "Lock Her Up" (about Mrs Clinton) in 2016. Others said the booing was justified, with left-wing writer Annie Shields responding that Mrs Clinton "should stop publicly criticising one of the Dem front runners in the interest of party unity". Filmmaker . The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.