The funding would kick-start "shovel-ready" flood defence projects in 22 at-risk areas, the government said. More than half the funds will go to schemes in Yorkshire and Suffolk. However, Rachel Jones, a shop owner in Hebden Bridge, West Yorkshire, said she had "very little" confidence the money would make a difference. The town, which sits in the Calder Valley, was badly flooded in 2012, 2015 and . As part of the government package, it will receive PS12m which the government said would increase protection for some 1,000 businesses. Ms Jones, who owns a "zero waste" shop in the town, said her business had been badly hit by flooding despite having 4ft shutters on the front of her shop. She said: "I think it's all right to build walls to stop the water coming in, but you need to have a look at what's going on on the tops [of the hills], and you need to change the environment." Andrew Entwistle, one of the town's flood wardens, said the government money was coming "not before time". He added: "You can feel the tension every time there's an alert. It's palpable. "I feel for the traders here. This is their livelihood, their dream and it's wrecked every time." He said along with the money, more "integrated work" was needed including natural flood management. Elsewhere in Yorkshire, PS21m of the funding will go towards phase two of the Leeds flood alleviation scheme, protecting more than 370 businesses and enabling the development of the land for homes and jobs. It comes after months of lobbying by local leaders for government to give better protection to avoid a repeat of the devastating 2015 Boxing Day floods, which damaged more than 2,600 homes and 700 businesses in the city. MP Rachel Reeves welcomed the investment after five years of government "dragging their feet". Prime Minister Boris Johnson faced criticism for his handling of flooding during a visit to affected communities in Yorkshire last December. Speaking of the funding, he said it would "protect hundreds of thousands of homes, businesses and livelihoods" across the country. Elsewhere, PS35m has been earmarked to manage flood risk in the Severn Valley. Funding of almost PS43.5m will deliver a tidal barrier and flood walls in Lowestoft and the Suffolk coast to protect key infrastructure and businesses, and support offshore energy and tourism. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.