Bristol City Council sent an email asking for views on a new support service to hundreds of people. The names of all the children and the email addresses of their primary carers were viewable to all recipients. The authority said it has apologised and was investigating. The email, which has been seen by the BBC, was sent by the disabled children and specialist services department of the council. A parent, who wished to remain anonymous, and who received one of the emails, said it was "a fundamental breach of trust and data". "It really signifies the disdain that they have for families with disabled children. "It's such a lack of concern for us. I feel this really exemplifies their indifference to the plight of disabled children in Bristol." She said there were 487 names of children and their carers visible on the email she received, and those names were all between "H and L" alphabetically, "so there will be a lot more". "Ironically, it's about a survey that they want us to fill in to tell them how they can improve their services. "It's very difficult to put into words how ridiculous and unnecessary it is," she added. A Bristol City Council spokesman said: "We are aware a breach of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) has occurred and we have been in contact with those affected and have apologised. "This case has been referred to the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO) and we will comply fully with their protocol. "Following a personal data breach an investigation is carried out into the causes. "Where staff have made a mistake the matter is addressed as a training issue, and where there have been failures in policy or process any necessary changes are made to reduce the risk of a similar incident occurring in the future. In addition to an internal investigation, the ICO will also provide recommendations which Bristol City Council will act upon." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.