On Monday, Ms Dolezal resigned from the anti-racism organisation NAACP, after her parents said she was pretending to be black. Speaking to NBC, she said that from the age of five she "was drawing self-portraits with the brown crayon instead of the peach crayon". She added that she "takes exception" to suggestions she had deceived people. "This is not some freak-show, Birth of a Nation blackface performance," she told NBC's Matt Lauer. "This is on a real connected level how I've had to go there with the experience." Hours beforehand, her mother Rutheanne Dolezal told the BBC's Victoria Derbyshire programme that her daughter had become "disconnected from reality". Ms Dolezal's estranged parents say her origins are mostly white, with a small amount of Native American ancestry. They say that she has no black origins. They have produced childhood . US media reported on Tuesday that in 2002 she sued the historically black Howard University for discriminating against her for being white. She subsequently claimed to be the victim of hate crimes for being black. Ms Dolezal, then known as Rachel Moore, received a Master of Fine Arts degree from Howard University 13 years ago. show that she sued the university for "discrimination based on race, pregnancy, family responsibilities and gender". As part of her claim, she alleged that some of her artwork had been removed from an exhibition in order to favour black students. She said the art was removed from the 2001 exhibition because Howard University was "motivated by a discriminatory purpose to favour African-American students over". The case was dismissed in 2004, with no evidence found that Ms Dolezal had been discriminated against. That decision was upheld by the Court of Appeal in 2005. She was ordered to pay costs of $2,728.50 (PS1,752) to Howard. . Its alumni include the writer Nobel Prize winning novelist Toni Morrison. On Monday, Rachel Dolezal as president of the The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People's Spokane Chapter in Washington in the wake of the race row. An received hundred of signatures. She had already lost her job as a lecturer in African-American studies at a local university. According to the , Ms Dolezal said she was a mix of white, black and American Indian on her application to serve on Spokane's citizen police ombudsman commission in January. The city's ethics committee said it was investigating the allegations, in addition to a separate investigation related to Ms Dolezal on a different matter. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.