Even riding on a rollercoaster is going to require a face mask and social distancing when attractions open up again. Blackpool's Pleasure Beach has decided that, on a ride on which people scream, visitors will be more comfortable if they are made to mask up. It is also going to be a less sociable experience - the seats on its Icon ride are only a metre apart so there will be empty rows to allow social distancing. After the opening of shops, England's leisure and cultural attractions are preparing for a government announcement that they too will be allowed to reopen. However, it will be months before many venues will be in a position to allow the public in again. A report from the Creative Industries Federation says 400,000 jobs are at risk and the cultural and creative economy is losing more than PS1bn a week in revenue. It's this dire situation that is driving planning to ensure institutions will be able to reopen quickly once the government gives the green light. Museums will be some of the first spaces to reopen their doors but it will be a different experience. The Design Museum in London is removing its ticket desks and is moving to an online ticketing system to avoid the need for physical tickets and queues. There will also be a strict 90-minute time limit to reduce crowding and everyone will be directed along a one-way route. Toilets will be one in, one out. It will be a similar experience at hundreds of other venues. James Adebayo from property consultants Tunji Adebayo & Co has been advising on how to make socially distanced spaces. There are, he says, a series of measures that will become commonplace. Venues will increasingly have designated viewing points with limits on how long you can linger. And there will in many places be strict one-way systems to stop dawdling and bumping in to fellow visitors. Every one of them will do things slightly differently but here is a list of things you could well experience on a day out. Of course, this will only affect venues and attractions which can control the public.  Some, such as live music venues, which rely on crowds standing together face a much longer wait and a huge hole in their revenue. entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.