The government's furlough scheme has slowed down the number of redundancies - but what are the prospects for the coming year? The most widely used measure is the unemployment rate. It counts how many people are able to work and want a job, but can't find one. The , according to the Office for National Statistics (ONS). That is an increase of 0.6% over the previous three months, and means that 1.72 million people were unemployed. The ONS also gathers weekly figures, which showed unemployment rising in September and October, and staying about the same in November. In November the government announced plans to extend - where it steps in to pay workers' salaries - into the spring. Without this, unemployment would most likely have continued rising faster. Most economists expect unemployment to continue rising for the rest of the year. UK unemployment is in the middle of 2021, according to the government's economic watchdog, the Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR). That is 7.5% of the working-age population. The made a similar prediction, with the unemployment rate peaking at 7.7% in April to June this year. The Bank admits that unemployment is currently very hard to predict, saying there's a small chance it could rise as high as 10%. However, those forecasts don't take into account the government's decision to extend the furlough scheme to the end of April, which could keep unemployment lower. The roll-out of vaccines to protect against Covid is also happening quickly. If this continues, it would also help the situation. Businesses such as shops, bars, travel and entertainment companies have had to close because of coronavirus lockdowns. Many have decided that they can't afford to keep all their workers. That is why there was a record number of redundancies - 395,000 - in the period from September to November. October was meant to be the last month of furlough, but after an England-wide lockdown was announced in November, it was extended for five more months. That meant many businesses could keep their staff by furloughing them instead of making them redundant. between the start of the scheme and 13 December (the latest date for which figures are available). Weekly figures showed that redundancy levels were lower in November than the peak in September. And recent figures from the Insolvency Service showed continue to fall in December. The industries which have seen the biggest impact from Covid restrictions and lockdowns have seen the biggest fall in employment, too. Hotels and restaurants, shops and entertainment have all seen large numbers of jobs lost. Those sectors employ many young people, who were made redundant at . The latest official statistics show a mixed picture - with many things improving, even though unemployment and redundancies are rising. The total number of hours people worked continued to improve as parts of the economy reopened and people returned to work. The average amount people earn had been falling sharply during the crisis, but it rose 3.6% in the latest figures. And the number of people on company payrolls rose slightly in December, by 0.2%. However the number of vacancies advertised fell around 10% from October to December as the new lockdowns reduced hiring. The start of the pandemic saw a big increase in the number of people claiming out-of-work benefits - far more than the rise in the number of people counted as unemployed. In December 2020 there were 2.6 million seeking either Jobseeker's Allowance or universal credit because they were "searching for work". This compares with 1.4 million in March, before the pandemic began to take effect. However, some of these people are working, but with either low wages or short hours. The ONS says it cannot tell how many claimants are out of work, or whether they are now able to get universal credit because the rules for claiming it have changed. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.