Figures reveal nine fines were handed out in the Lothians and Scottish Borders. The other hotspots were Greater Glasgow and Lanarkshire, which both recorded eight offences. People living in level three or level four areas should only leave their council areas if Last Friday more that two million people across 11 council areas were moved to level four, while another 10 local authority areas were in level three. Fines start at PS30, doubling to PS60 if they are not paid within 28 days. Repeat offenders can face fines of up to PS960. The Scottish government said the new travel laws, which cover western and central parts of the country, were needed to prevent the virus spreading to areas where it is less prevalent. And police have repeatedly said enforcement would only be used as a "last resort". During the Scottish government's daily media briefing Health Secretary Jeane Freeman was asked about reports of people being stopped by police close to the border with England. Ms Freeman said she was unable to comment on operational matters but stressed people need to know the restrictions and exemptions. Deputy Chief Constable Malcolm Graham said: "The Chief Constable has said publicly on numerous occasions that we will not be routinely stopping vehicles or setting up road blocks, and that will not change as a result of travel restrictions now being in law. "However, officers may in the course of their duties come across people who are travelling from one local authority area to another. "In areas where travel restrictions apply, officers will continue to use the common sense, discretion and excellent judgement that they have applied since the crisis began." The force was unable to provide details about any of the cases which resulted in a fine. The statistics for fixed penalty notices linked to the travel regulations, cover the period from 18:00 last Friday to Wednesday. Multiple offences were only recorded in two other police divisions. In Tayside there were two fines give out, while in Renfrewshire & Inverclyde there were also two. The total was made up by single fines issued in North East, Forth Valley and Ayrshire. The force's weekly Covid-19 bulletin also shows police issued a total of 392 fixed penalty notices for virus-related offences - including the travel fines - in the week to 25 November and made 37 arrests. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.