Residents Sandwell, Solihull and Birmingham saw identical rules Some two million people will now be covered by lockdown measures across the West Midlands. The number of cases in Wolverhampton has risen five-fold in a fortnight, with about 60 cases per 100,000 residents in the seven days to 12 September, compared with 12.6 cases in the week to 29 August. The new rules only apply to those living within the city boundary of Wolverhampton. Council leader Ian Brookfield said all the evidence showed close contact within the home or between households was a major cause of the spread. "We urge residents to continue to support our plea not to visit other households - this will be the law from Tuesday," he said. Despite the ban on private mixing, people can socialise with other households in hospitality venues, provided they follow the . Esme Stackhouse, who runs Lindy Lou's Cafe & Coffee shop in the city, thinks it may make people reluctant to go out again. But she said it was a positive move to prevent another full lockdown, which may have a worse impact on businesses. "I can understand why it would be necessary," she said. "Business-wise, it would be something that would be really difficult to deal with, particularly as we have only just taken over, we would have to go back to the beginning encouraging people with their confidence and things. "People won't like it because of the fact it is another restriction, but it is better than going into a general lockdown and if we can prevent that, that is the main thing." Wolverhampton South East MP Pat McFadden told BBC Radio WM measures were "in the public interest to get on top of this virus". Hollie Duckett, 29, lives in Wednesfield with her husband and relies on his parents to pick up three-year-old son Maximus from nursery when she is working. "Because of the circumstances, I am now having to look to drop to part-time hours, which will affect my pay," she said. "It is frustrating. I'm one of the ones who has followed the rules, and it just feels like some people have been negligent in that and I'm now paying the consequences. "I also feel sorry for my mum and dad, they have spent so long shielding and have just been able to come out and see family and now it has been taken away from them." Some councils and MPs in the Midlands have called for those providing childcare to be exempted from lockdown restrictions, but the government has yet to make a decision. Amy Whitter, 29, who runs Fit Mommas mother and baby fitness classes, said the rules were "confusing". "The fact that people can go to the pub and mix with people - once people get drunk it is hard for anyone to social distance - that is the main thing I can't get my head around," she said Although she believes her classes can still take place under social distancing rules, it has affected other areas of her business. "I had spoken to a lady about doing pregnancy personal training, which we were going to do at her house, but that can't happen now." Shaun Keasey, who runs city nightclub Gorgeous and The Prince Albert pub, said trade had dropped in recent weeks because people were "frightened" about the ongoing situation. He said most pubs and bars were "doing as much as possible" to ensure people could socialise in a "safe environment". Marlon Taylor, from Pendeford, in Wolverhampton, started a business during lockdown but said, despite that, lockdown had not been a "positive experience". "Human beings are social beings, we live for each other, we all do things throughout the year with our families, birthdays, Christmas, we live for socialising," he said. "It can cause problems; if I need to go out and my girlfriend is at work and we need childcare, it is a bit of a nightmare." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.