A in the nation, with gyms and businesses such as hairdressers also able to open. More than 55 million people are in the strictest two tiers and cannot mix indoors with those in other households. The government said it would "safeguard the gains made during the past month". At a Downing Street briefing, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he accepted that the tiered system was "tough", but insisted that regional restrictions and mass testing were the way to "keep the virus under control". He said he hoped that places would be able "to come down the tiers" before Easter, while stressing that the tier restrictions would continue to be a "very important" part of battling coronavirus. There were queues outside stores across England early on Wednesday as shoppers returned to High Street giants such as Primark. And people arrived promptly to take advantage of from 07:00 GMT. Some retailers are extending their trading hours to try to recoup the loss in sales over the lockdown. It comes after a period which has seen , and the failure of - putting a total of more than 25,000 jobs at risk. Footfall at UK shops was up by 64.5% compared to last week, but on the same day last year, according to analyst Springboard. Jordan Roberts, 19, was among a dozen people queuing outside Selfridges in London's Oxford Street before the department store opened its doors - and shoppers were welcomed by store workers dressed as elves on roller skates. She said she was there to do her Christmas shopping, adding: "It feels more enjoyable being in a store and things run out of stock online." Another London shopper, Tamara Rass, 44, said she hit the stores early as she expected they would be busy. "For me, it's a little bit of light at the end of the tunnel and getting back to normality," she said. "There are things in store that I can't get online and I like to treat my daughter once a month." Elsewhere, there were also reports of "steady" footfall in England's town centres. Busy in Worcester today. Seems quite chilled and safe though, everyone is taking it slowly and most people wearing masks at all times. Shops looking steady, most of the busiest have marshals on the door.     Tier 2 times in  Real feeling of 'being back'. Shops busy (hairdressers looking full!)....all with safety measures clearly in place. Some great busking going on too!  Transport for London said 760,000 journeys were made on the London Underground network on Wednesday from the start of service until 10:00 GMT - up 14% on last week, but only 31% of normal demand. There were 970,000 bus journeys made. This was up 8% on last week and 57% of pre-pandemic levels. British Retail Consortium chief executive Helen Dickinson said businesses were looking forward to welcoming back customers, , adding "every purchase we make is a retailer helped, a job protected and a local community supported". The government has also announced that people living in care homes in England will , if the visitors test negative for coronavirus. And later on Wednesday for the first time, other than a few pilot games, since March. England's new tiered system was just hours before it came into effect, despite 55 Tories voting against PM Boris Johnson's plan. The latest restrictions are tougher than the previous tier system that was in place before the lockdown was introduced on 5 November. Under the system every area of the country is in one of three tiers - medium (one), high (two) and very high (three) - with the vast majority of the population in the higher two tiers. In tier two, people are not allowed to mix with anyone outside their household or support bubble indoors, although they can socialise in groups of up to six outdoors. And in tier three, people must also not mix with anyone outside their household or support bubble indoors, or at most outdoor venues. Scotland while Wales and Northern Ireland have - with the latter currently in . On Wednesday, a further 16,170 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the UK, while a further 648 deaths were reported within 28 days of a positive test. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the to submit your question or comment or you can email us at . Please include your name, age and location with any submission. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.