Spain has since reciprocated the move, while Mexico claims it had already recalled its ambassador owing to concerns over her safety. What has caused this sudden breakdown of relations? It essentially comes back to Bolivia's ex-president Evo Morales, who was given asylum in Mexico in November after fleeing his homeland amid turmoil following his disputed re-election. Mexico also opened its ambassador's residence in La Paz to various former associates of Mr Morales, and this has led to protests on its doorstep from angry Bolivians who oppose the ex-president. Relations have since been understandably strained between Mexico - which has a left-wing leader and had supported the socialist Morales government - and the new Bolivian leadership, which is being temporarily headed by Jeanine Anez, who was an opposition senator. Spain says its representatives - including Charge d'Affaires Cristina Borreguero - were paying a courtesy visit to the Mexican embassy on Friday morning. However, Bolivia insists there was an ulterior "hostile" motive. Its interim government has accused Spain of being part of a plot to hatch the escape of the most-wanted man in the country, former Interior Minister Juan Ramon Quintana. Spain "vehemently denies there was any aim to facilitate the exit of people holed up inside the building", according to statement from its foreign ministry. Mr Quintana, the former top aide of Mr Morales, has, like the ex-president, after post-election protests became violent. Both men reject the allegations against them and Mr Morales has since moved on to Argentina. Morales critics have been gathering outside the Mexican residence - in a traffic-free compound known as La Rinconada - calling for Mr Quintana to be handed over to authorities. Mexico's foreign ministry has, for days, complained about a "siege" outside, owing to the heavy presence of Bolivian police and military standing guard at the perimeter. It accuses Bolivian authorities of harassing and intimidating its diplomatic staff, and has asked the International Court of Justice to mediate in the dispute. According to Spanish newspaper El Pais, tensions were particularly high on Friday morning as protesters had already reacted to a van leaving the premises, thinking it held Mr Quintana in the back. The newspaper said that was a false alarm: the van was carrying a fridge. Their meeting lasted 40 minutes, according to the Mexican ministry of foreign affairs. The ministry said the problems started when the Spaniards went to leave and police blocked their cars - with diplomatic licence plates - from driving in to collect them. The Mexican ambassador reportedly heard screams - it is unclear from whom - and then invited the delegation back inside. The ministry claims the Bolivian authorities told the visitors they could make their way towards the exit on foot, but the Spanish delegation feared for their safety. Amid the tension, the Mexican ambassador, Maria Teresa Mercado, fired off a message on Twitter - which she later deleted - accusing Bolivian officials of violating the Vienna Convention which safeguards diplomatic rights. El Pais reported that special operatives of the Spanish police were present and they covered their faces to hide from photographers outside. However, Bolivia claimed they were masked because they were involved in a covert operation. "The hostile behaviour, trying to surreptitiously enter Mexico's residence in Bolivia, challenging Bolivian police officers and Bolivian citizens themselves, are facts that we cannot let go and have generated consequences," said the country's interim president. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.