The call by a coalition of 70 health groups and campaigners comes as different approaches are being pursued in the UK. Their also called for a ban on advertising and tough rules on sales. Industry said measures should target people who needed help, not everyone who enjoyed a drink. Devolution has meant different strategies have been developing to tackle rising rates of problem drinking. In Scotland a 50p price is set to be introduced, while a 45p threshold has been proposed for England and Wales. Northern Ireland is yet to put forward a specific proposal, although it is reviewing pricing. Slightly different licensing regimes exist as well. But the report, produced by Stirling University experts with the backing of a host of royal colleges, health charities and medical groups, said this fragmented approach had to end. Research has suggested a 50p minimum price would reduce consumption by 6.7% which after 10 years would mean there were 3,000 fewer alcohol deaths and 100,000 fewer hospital admissions. As well as proposing a minimum price, it also said alcohol-related advertising and sponsorship should end and a third of the space of labels should be taken up by health warnings. Licensing rules should also be standardised, while the drink-drive limit should be lowered, it said. But perhaps the most radical suggestion was the idea that there should be restrictions on where and when alcohol could be sold. The report did not put forward specific proposals, but the Stirling team said this could include a ban on sales after certain times in the evening and separate tills in supermarkets for alcohol. The report, dubbed an independent alcohol strategy for the UK, also highlighted the toll of excessive drinking. Alcohol consumption has risen by 40% in the past 40 years with a quarter of men and 17% of women drinking more than is good for them. Alcohol related deaths now stand at nearly 9,000 a year - more than double the figure in the early 1990s. Sir Ian Gilmore, chairman of the Alcohol Health Alliance, said it was essential the UK governments worked together on the issue. "The report provides a blueprint for action now and in the future." Andrew Langford, chief executive of the British Liver Trust, which has also put its name to the report, added: "We must all do something now to start to tackle this avoidable epidemic." Henry Ashworth, chief executive of the Portman Group, which represents the UK's leading drinks producers, said the vast majority of people drink within recommended guidelines. "What we need are targeted solutions focused on those individuals and local areas which require the most help, not nationwide marketing bans which are proven to be ineffective in reducing alcohol misuse. "The UK drinks industry has voluntarily introduced a wide range of measures to encourage responsible drinking including health information on labels, an independent complaints process and strict codes of practice which ensure alcohol is marketed responsibly - we must focus on finding local solutions to tackle specific alcohol-related problems, not penalising those who are drinking sensibly." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.