The briefing was expected to have details about steps the government may take to protect elderly and vulnerable people. The over-70s have been told they are allowed to go out for walks when . brings the UK total to 36. Most of those who have died in the UK have been people over the age of 60 with underlying health conditions. The total number of people in the UK to test positive for the virus has risen by 171 in a day to a total of 1,543, according to . The latest cases include 30 more from Wales and . More than 44,000 people have been tested in the UK. People self-isolating with mild symptoms are no longer being tested - tests are primarily being given to hospital patients with respiratory problems, and to people in residential or care facilities experiencing outbreaks. But on Monday the head of the World Health Organization, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, said not enough tests were being carried out. "We have a simple message for all countries: test, test, test," he said - adding that the WHO has sent out almost 1.5 million tests to 120 countries. Daily news conferences will be led by the prime minister or senior ministers, alongside Prof Chris Whitty, the government's chief medical adviser, and chief scientific adviser Sir Patrick Vallance. It follows criticism of No 10 for an apparent lack of transparency over its plans to stem the spread of the virus, which causes the disease Covid-19. Downing Street said the government was committed to keeping the public informed and would be led by science. Meanwhile, Transport Secretary Grant Shapps told programme that over-70s who would still be able to go for a walk outside. "It's about being sensible but not mixing in crowds," he said. And the BBC has said it will delay changes to the TV licence . Director General Tony Hall said it was important the corporation served the public "at this difficult time". Monday's meeting of the government's emergency Cobra committee, chaired by Mr Johnson, included discussions on how to protect the elderly and vulnerable and whether to ban mass gatherings. Health Secretary Matt Hancock said details of emergency legislation giving the government more powers to deal with the virus will be revealed on Tuesday. Hotels could be converted to makeshift hospitals and private hospitals could be called on to boost NHS bed numbers. The government to produce ventilator machines for use in hospitals to get in touch. Any businesses who can help with the Prime Minister's call for ventilator production please contact helpline on 0300 456 3565 or email ventilator.support@beis.gov.uk Huge thanks to all those companies that have already responded. Most schools across the UK remained open on Monday, despite blanket closures in countries such as Spain, France and Ireland. Some decided to close, however, and Education Secretary Gavin Williamson is due to meet head teachers to discuss their concerns. Some universities have halted classes and moved all their lectures online while the National Education Union has said it is "unacceptable" for Ofsted inspections to go ahead during the pandemic. From Tuesday, face-to-face assessments for sickness and disability welfare payments will be suspended for three months. The suspension will apply to claimants of personal independence payments, employment and support allowance, some on Universal Credit and people on industrial injuries schemes. The fallout from the pandemic has begun to hit industry. Key developments include: Mr Shapps told BBC Breakfast that good companies "shouldn't be put out of business" due to a downturn caused by the virus. He will meet airline leaders and discuss potential financial support for businesses with Chancellor Rishi Sunak. A Public Health England (PHE) briefing, , warned the epidemic could last until spring 2021 and put 7.9 million people in hospital. Downing Street said the PHE briefing outlined a reasonable worst-case scenario. In other key updates: Use this form to ask your question: If you are reading this page on the BBC News app, you will need to visit the mobile version of the to submit your question on this topic. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.