Liam Campbell, from Dundalk, is wanted in Lithuania over allegations he was part of an operation to buy guns and bombs for the Real IRA. In early July, the council's policy committee had . On Thursday, the motion failed to get ratification from the full council. Instead, a counter motion passed calling for the extradition to proceed. Claire Monteith, who lost her brother Alan Radford in the Omagh bomb, said the initial move to oppose Mr Campbell's extradition had been "brutally insensitive". "This was being driven though by the council representing the area affected, which meant I and other victims were being forced to support it," she said. She added that she was "extremely relieved" it had failed. The Omagh bomb is the worst single atrocity during almost 30 years of the Troubles in Northern Ireland. No-one has ever been convicted of the 1998 dissident republican attack that killed 29 people, including a woman pregnant with twins. In June 2009, Liam Campbell was found liable, along with convicted Real IRA leader Michael McKevitt, for the Omagh bombing. That verdict followed a landmark civil action brought by relatives of some of those killed in the atrocity. At the committee meeting held earlier this month, DUP and Ulster Unionist councillors voted against independent councillor Bernice Swift's motion opposing the extradition. But it passed with support with the support of SDLP, Sinn Fein and others. The SDLP later said and For the motion to take effect it needed the ratification of full council. At Thursday's full council meeting the majority of members voted against the motion being discussed. Ulster Unionist councillor Robert Irvine proposed the motion be sent back to the policy and resources committee. It passed with the support of 29 councillors, with six against and one abstention. Those opposed to returning the motion to committee, included four Sinn Fein members. An Ulster Unionist counter-motion calling for the speeding-up of the extradition passed with the support of 20 councillors, with two voting against and 15 abstentions. Ulster Unionist councillor Victor Warrington told councillors he hoped "this will consign this whole sorry episode to the dustbin of history where it belongs". Meanwhile, a motion also went before Derry and Strabane District Council on Thursday opposing Mr Campbell's extradition. It was proposed by independent councillor Gary Donnelly, but failed to pass after it was rejected by SDLP and unionist councillors. Sinn Fein abstained after an attempt to amend the motion failed. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.