It follows the of comedy film, The Interview, starring Seth Rogen about North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. The hack, earlier this month, included terrorist threats of 9/11 style attacks on cinemas. A group called #GOP or the Guardians of Peace has claimed responsibility. Now, New Regency, the film company behind Steve Carell's latest film project, has also confirmed it will scrap production. Carell's paranoid thriller, called Pyongyang, was about a Westerner's experiences working in North Korea for a year. The movie was based on Guy DeLisle's graphic novel, A Journey in North Korea. Filming was due to begin in March with Gore Verbinski as director and Steve Conrad (The Secret Life of Walter Mitty) as writer. The Interview storyline centres on a fictional assassination attempt on the North Korea leader, Kim Jong-un. Speculation has mounted that North Korea may have had a hand in the attack as a form of retaliation for Sony's release of The Interview. A North Korean foreign ministry spokesman called the movie an "act of terrorism" in June, promising "merciless" retaliation if it was released. The country eventually denied involvement, but heaped praise on the hack, calling it a "righteous deed". The secretive nation's ability to wage cyber warfare is not unknown, but it has not previously used the name Guardians of Peace. The US government said it was considering a "range of options" on how to respond to the cyber-attack. "We know that criminals and foreign countries regularly seek to gain access to government and private sector networks - both in the United States and elsewhere," a National Security Council statement said, adding that the FBI was leading the investigation. "We take very seriously any attempt to threaten or limit artists' freedom of speech or of expression." Shortly after the film cancellation news Steve Carell tweeted: "Sad day for creative expression #feareatsthesoul The actor is famous for playing Michael Scott in the US version of The Office and has also starred in films such as The 40-Year-Old Virgin and Anchorman. He also voiced characters in the animated films Despicable Me and Despicable Me 2. The 52-year-old was nominated as America's funniest man in Life magazine and received a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in a Television Comedy Series for his work on The Office. Follow on Twitter and on YouTube The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.