They were travelling to Medellin with football team Chapecoense to cover the first leg of the Copa Sudamericana's final. Only six of the 77 people on board the plane survived the crash, including one reporter, Rafael Henzel, who is said to be in stable condition after surgery. Radio and TV reporter, he covered Chapecoense. His father, Luis Carlos, told "This is the worst day of my life, to lose a son this way. And I lost him while he was doing what he loved the most, journalism." Worked for RIC and Vang FM. Reporter for Fox Sports Brazil, Chermont had worked for other Brazilian TV stations including SporTV. Sports journalist at Chapeco radio. Sports journalist at Chapeco's Super Conda radio. Sports presenter at Fox Sports, had more than 25 years of experience. Worked for some of Brazil's most important outlets, such as Radio Globo, and O Globo and Jornal do Brasil newspapers, as reporter and editor. Covered five Fifa World Cups, between 1994 and 2014. Had a son. Was a reporter at Globoesporte.com website assigned to cover Chapecoense. Had also covered the 2014 Brazil World Cup. Had also worked at Correio do Povo newspaper. his former colleagues recalled a "happy, hard-working man, loved by everybody". Sports journalist at Chapeco's Super Conda radio. Cameraman for Fox Sports Brazil. Had more than 25 years of experience. Joined Globo TV in 1997 and was often deployed on foreign assignments. In 2015 was working in Nepal when an earthquake hit the country and his pictures were seen around the world. He had four children. Outside broadcast coordinator for Fox Sports Brazil. The reporter joined local TV station RBS in 2014. Colleagues told Brazilian media that Klein, who was assigned to cover the club, had turned Chapecoense's stadium into his "second home". Prior to his job as a producer at Globo TV, worked at Brazilian newspapers Extra and Lance. Was part of the team covering the 2014 Brazil World Cup and this year's Olympic Games in Rio. His wife is expecting their third child. The reporter celebrated his 28th birthday just last Friday. Joined Globo TV in 2013. Earlier this year he was part of the team covering the Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro. Was considered by some of his colleagues as a rising star. Joined RBS TV 13 years ago and was one of the company's most experienced cameramen. Had a son and a daughter. A former football player, was a commentator for Fox Sports. Played for some of Brazil's biggest clubs, including Flamengo, Victoria, Fluminense, Botafogo and Internacional where, in 1979, won Brazil's national tournament. In 1983 won the International Cup with Gremio. Known as Deva Pascovicci, had his first job in a small radio station at the age of 13. His first job as sports reporter came in 1983. Ten years later he made his TV debut. Covered the Olympic Games in 1996, 2000 and 2004, and World Cups in 1998 and 2002. Survived a cancer in 2006. Worked for Fox Sports Brazil and had two daughters. A reporter for Diario Catarinense newspaper since 2011, after joining them as an intern. In a tribute, said Podi, as he was known, was "an extremely nice and generous" man, who was on his first international trip. His dream, they said, was to work for ESPN Brasil. Sports journalist at Chapeco radio. Was a technician working on RBS TV's outside broadcasts, having joined the company in 2012. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.