Stormont ministers have insisted it won't be a return to full lockdown like we experienced in March, so what would it look like? BBC News NI explains why it is being considered, the impacts it could have and when it might take effect. It is a short, sharp period of tightened restrictions for everyone to curb the spread of coronavirus, usually lasting about two weeks. It gained traction in London last month, with Number 10 proposing it as one way of trying to halt the rapid growth in infections. Other countries such as and have previously deployed the strategy. The number of Covid-19 cases in Northern Ireland in recent weeks. Although hospital admissions and numbers of patients in intensive care remain low, health officials remain concerned that the situation could spiral out of control into the winter season, unless more drastic measures are taken soon. The Department of Health has said in Northern Ireland in a month's time, if the current trend continues. The rate of new deaths following a positive test for Covid-19 has also begun to rise and the R number - or rate of transmission of the virus - is currently estimated at about 1.5. That's why the idea of a circuit breaker remains on the table, with NI's Chief Scientific Adviser Prof Ian Young saying it is " in terms of reducing the transmission of the virus". It needs to be long enough to break the chains of transmission - but short enough to minimise the effect on the economy. Its length would be pre-determined and likely to last a maximum of two or three weeks. Health Minister Robin Swann has said there would be a "timeliness" to introduce the measure around the half-term Halloween holidays, but warned that if cases continued rising sharply, it may need to be brought in sooner. The executive has said that keeping schools open remains its top priority, with First Minister Arlene Foster saying , like they did in March. If, as anticipated, the executive implements the move in the run-up to Halloween, there could be an extended break for schools, as opposed to the one-week half term they normally get at this time of year. BBC News NI understands there are ongoing discussions within the Department of Education about the break lasting as long as three weeks. If that was the case, schools could be asked to stay open for children of key workers, but most pupils would be taught remotely for two of those weeks. Practically, it could mean an end to going to the pub or to restaurants for the duration of the circuit breaker. The hospitality industry in NI is already required to close at 23:00, but additional , where pubs, hotel bars and restaurants can only offer takeaway, delivery, and outdoor dining. Executive ministers have already said those measures may have to be extended across other parts of Northern Ireland soon. A circuit breaker could also mean stricter guidance on people working from home, and advice against travel out of your local area. It is not clear if some close contact services - such as hair and beauty salons - would be advised to close, and whether the executive would issue further advice on weddings, funerals and church services. The exact impact on jobs is also uncertain, , which could coincide with a circuit breaker. Economy Minister Diane Dodds has argued strongly that further measures to curb the spread of the virus will have a negative impact on businesses. She has called for an economic analysis to be carried out on the measure before the executive agrees to introduce it. Her officials have warned that Northern Ireland "cannot afford another lockdown", and that there could be Other executive ministers have also been pressing Westminster for commitments of additional money, in the event that tighter Covid restrictions are brought in. In reality, the executive will have to balance its health plans to tackle the virus with its reliance on the British government for extra financial support. On Friday, Chancellor Rishi Sunak said employees who work for UK firms forced to shut by law because of coronavirus restrictions will get two-thirds of their wages paid for by the government. He said this was an "expansion" of the Job Support Scheme, which begins on 1 November and will be available for six months. As a result, Northern Ireland and the other devolved nations will automatically get a rise in funding through what's known as a Barnett consequential. Stormont ministers will be keeping a keen eye on Westminster for an anticipated restrictions update on Monday, which could see pubs and restaurants shut in the worst-affected areas. The executive is also conscious of the land border shared with the Republic of Ireland, and there have been calls for an all-island approach to any further measures. On Tuesday, the Irish government to move the whole country to the tightest level of restrictions, arguing that the proposals went too far. Scotland's First Minister Nicola Sturgeon has put in place additional restrictions for the country's hospitality sector, although . There is growing speculation that a circuit breaker for Northern Ireland could be announced soon. Last Sunday, Dr Gerry Waldron of the Public Health Agency said it was "almost inevitable", while Deputy First Minister Michelle O'Neill has said if Northern Ireland was moving towards that, then "people should be informed that's where we are going" through clear communication. Any recommendations from Stormont's Department of Health will need to be approved by the whole executive, where opinions among the five parties have varied greatly during the pandemic. It is also possible that if the strategy is implemented and works, then it could be deployed again, if deemed appropriate by the executive. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.