It opened in Liverpool in 1957 and hosts about 800,000 visitors per year. Bill Heckle, one of the club's directors, said it had lost PS30,000 a week since the lockdown began in March. "We went five months before unfortunately we had to make about 20 people redundant. We think we might have to make another 20 redundant in the next few weeks." The Beatles played their first Cavern gig in 1961 and the late entertainer Cilla Black worked as a cloakroom attendant at the Mathew Street premises. Other big name acts to have played there include The Rolling Stones, Stevie Wonder, David Bowie and Adele and it was hosting live concerts there until lockdown. "About seven months ago, you couldn't even think of a scenario where the Cavern wouldn't be successful - I actually said that," Mr Heckle said. "We made a decision a few years ago to keep as much money in the bank as possible for a rainy day, not realising it was going to be a thunderstorm. "So, we were sitting on PS1.4m in the bank that has now been halved." The Cavern's survival depends on a bid to the government's cultural recovery fund, a Liverpool City Council spokesperson said. "If the government grants allow us to open at 30%, then we still lose money," Mr Heckle said. "I don't want them to pay our profits, I wouldn't expect them to pay our profits, but at least make sure we don't lose money, because it's costing us PS30,000 a week at the moment to be closed." The club is reopening for virtual sets by music bands from around the world later in August. "We know we're not going to make money," Mr Heckle said. "It's about really reminding people we're here and the sole aim is to get out the other side, I'm sure we will. But it is about survival." The city's mayor Joe Anderson said the "prospect of losing a national jewel like the Cavern is a horrible scenario". "Liverpool City Council is doing it all it can to help our venues but we can only do so much, given how much financial pressure we are under supporting the most vulnerable in our communities." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.