They will celebrate Christmas at Windsor Castle and not Sandringham, as is their usual tradition. The Royal Family usually spends the day together, but will not visit each other this year because of restrictions. The Queen will also forgo her usual church service and worship privately to avoid crowds, it is understood. Her Christmas Day speech will be broadcast at 15:00 GMT. The Queen, 94, and Prince Philip, 99, have been living at Windsor Castle during the pandemic with a small household staff. It is thought to be the first time the couple have not spent Christmas at their Sandringham home since the mid-1980s. A quiet Christmas at home with no visits by the family. That's Christmas 2020 and the Royal Family are following the restrictions like people across the country. In their case, of course, the "homes" are rather grand. The Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh are at Windsor Castle with a small number of staff. Other members of the Royal Family are at their homes: the Prince of Wales and Duchess of Cornwall in Gloucestershire: the Cambridges in Norfolk. For the Queen, there won't be the normal Christmas morning excursion to church, though she is expected to share a moment of Christmas worship in the private chapel inside the castle. No details about her Christmas speech have been made public in advance, but the focus of the broadcast will inevitably be the pandemic. On Christmas Day, the Royal Family tweeted a video of St George's Chapel choir singing.   Wishing all our followers a very Merry Christmas!  St George's Chapel choir sing 'We wish you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year'. The Chapel, situated in the grounds of Windsor Castle, has a unique Royal history. Find out more:  The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge acknowledged those going through a particularly difficult time this year because of the pandemic, tweeting pictures of people working through the festive season. This Christmas our thoughts are with those of you who are spending today alone, those of you who are mourning the loss of a loved one, and those of you on the frontline who are still mustering the energy to put your own lives on hold to look after the rest of us. Meanwhile, the Prince of Wales and the Duchess of Cornwall sent their Christmas wishes on social media, telling followers, "Here's to a better new year." Wishing you all a happy Christmas and here's to a better New Year!  The Queen's address will mark the end of a year that saw her go for seven months outside of a royal residence. During that time, her son, the and displayed mild symptoms. Palace sources also told the BBC that - though Kensington Palace refused to comment officially. The royals have spent some time together during the pandemic. The Queen and several other senior royals . She was also joined by family members at at the Cenotaph in London's Whitehall in November. The Christmas broadcast will be the Queen's third televised address this year, which is unusual for the monarch. In April, as the first wave of the pandemic saw people across the country told to stay at home, In a rallying message, she lamented the "painful sense of separation from their loved ones" that social distancing was causing people - but said it was "the right thing to do". The following month, in a poignant address to mark the 75th anniversary of VE Day, she said In last year's Christmas speech, she described 2019 - which saw intense political debate over Brexit and a number of personal events affecting the Royal Family - She said the path is never "smooth" but "small steps" can heal divisions. This year's message will be broadcast on the BBC and ITV. Shortly afterwards, Channel 4 will air its alternative Christmas message - which will The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.