as part of the largest operation of its type ever carried out by North Wales Police. A judge at Mold Crown Court described it as a "sophisticated operation", involving encrypted mobile phones, lie detectors and even a plot to attack a former gang member who had fallen out of favour. Police seized drugs with a street value of PS2.1m. The reach of the gang, based in Liverpool, stretched to Aberdeen and Cornwall. It was an operation described as a classic example of a "county lines" conspiracy. The group behind the supply, led by Colin Jones, were violent and were specifically targeted by police due to the threat posed to public safety. Officers had spent nearly three years investigating the gang, right to the very top. Colin Jones, based in Walton in Liverpool, was described as a drugs wholesaler who rarely got his hands dirty. When he was arrested, police found he had nine phones, and two encrypted devices. He hired lie detector specialists to check out his colleagues. As well as selling drugs, he swapped them for sports cars. Colin Jones had a team of call handlers who answered what the gang called "the Echo Line". In a three-month period in 2018, the hotline took over 100,000 calls. Police estimated it was selling several thousand pounds of drugs a day. Drugs were also sent up and down the UK, sometimes in packages sent from local post offices in Liverpool. At one point the violence was turned on one of their former conspirators. Colin Jones and David Rawling were secretly recorded talking to an unknown hit man arranging an attack on Lee Murray. Officers stepped in and stopped the attack, but believed a gun would have been involved. Judge Niclas Parry spent three days sentencing the gang. He said they had controlled a significant portion of the drugs trade in Deeside, casting a blight on the community. in total with the other gang members given sentences from four to 15 and a half years. Police say it is a significant victory against the supply of drugs from big cities into north Wales - but it remains a fight that will continue in the months to come. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.