From 6 July without having to spend 14 days in quarantine on their return. Tourism in Wales is not due to re-open until the following week on 13 July. The UK government is responsible for border controls, but health and the response to the pandemic is devolved. This means any quarantine measures would need to be approved by the Welsh Government. The UK Foreign Office advice against all but essential international travel has been in place since 17 March. But under its new rules, a traffic light system will be introduced - with countries classified as green, amber or red depending on the prevalence of coronavirus. The UK is likely to discuss arrangements with countries over the coming days. Sarah Astley, who runs a touring caravan site on Anglesey, said it would be "unfair" if people could travel to the continent and not travel within Wales. She said: "It seems very unfair that touring caravan sites here in Wales are to remain closed but after 6 July you would be able to take your caravan and travel across the Channel to France, Spain or Greece to have a lovely holiday." Andrew Campbell from the Wales Tourism Alliance said he was surprised by the announcement and  that "it seems rather absurd" that Welsh tourists may be able to travel abroad but not travel within Wales. But he said he backed the Welsh Government's cautious approach to re-opening. He said: "I was sitting in a Welsh Government meeting yesterday and we had no inkling that this was coming through. "So clearly, there was a communication problem that the thinking in London isn't coming down to Cardiff, which is a shame." He added: "Some businesses may be thinking we could re-open on 6 July but the industry is geared up for the 13th now. "It's being done in a considered way, we've got to have those safety protocols in place, we've got to make sure business is safe, we've got to make sure that communities are safe, staff are safe and visitors are safe. Safety is the key thing here." The Welsh Conservatives' Russell George MS said the situation was "bizarre". "We in Wales find ourselves in the bizarre situation where from next month tourists could be able to depart from or arrive at Cardiff airport, but there is no published plan from the Welsh Government to allow people to stay at tourist venues, hotels or B&Bs in Wales." For more on the rules . The Welsh Government has indicated it will not be changing its plans on re-opening tourism businesses. In a statement, a spokesman said: "The Welsh Government continues to explore the UK government's proposals for 'air bridges' and awaits confirmation of a four-nation ministerial meeting to discuss the issue further." He added: "The coronavirus lockdown measures in Wales are in place to help limit the spread of the virus. "Ministers review all the restrictions in place at each review period and then decide what, if anything, can be changed. "Changes will only be made when it is safe to do so. Our focus is on helping to save lives." At the last review on 19 June, First Minister Mark Drakeford announced a package of measures to further ease restrictions in Wales which included He also signalled the visitor and tourism industry should use the next three weeks to make preparations for reopening. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.