University of Aberdeen's Prof George Boyne apologised for any concern after a trip to the Vale of Glamorgan to see a consultant for a health matter. South Wales Police investigated and said Prof Boyne's reasons were "legitimate". The force said it was a "reasonable excuse" for entering the area. Under Welsh Government restrictions no one can currently enter or leave the Vale of Glamorgan - which is under local lockdown - . Exemptions include to seek medical assistance. Student newspaper The Gaudie had said his actions were in "stark contrast" with university rules which for those breaking Covid rules. In a previous statement, Prof Boyne said: "On Friday I travelled down to Wales for a private health matter, to see a consultant I have been seeing for some time. "For the purposes of the visit I have been staying at our house in Wales which is occupied by our son. "As I have reduced immunity, it felt like the safest option to be in our house, rather than in a hotel. "It has been suggested to me that this may be not be in line with local guidance. I sincerely apologise for any concern this may cause." Prof Boyne said he had informed the senior governor of the University of Aberdeen. South Wales Police said it was investigating, but in a statement on Tuesday night said it would be "taking no further action". "We are now satisfied that his reasons for visiting the area are legitimate and are what would be considered a 'reasonable excuse' under Welsh Government guidance," the force said. "Prof Boyne has been suitably advised and no further action will be taken." Esther Robertson, senior governor at the university, said she has met with members of the University Court and "briefed them on the circumstances and received their feedback. The matter is still under consideration". Before taking the role in Aberdeen, Prof Boyne had been pro vice-chancellor and head of the College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences at Cardiff University since 2012. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.