The former US secretary of state is the university's 11th chancellor and first woman to take up the post. In a statement, Mrs Clinton said it was a "great privilege" to become the chancellor of QUB. She takes up her role immediately and will serve for a period of five years, succeeding . It's my great privilege to become 's 11th--and first female--chancellor. It's a place I have great fondness for and have grown a strong relationship with over the years, and I'm proud to be an ambassador for its excellence. While the role of chancellor is mainly a ceremonial one, securing Mrs Clinton will be seen as a coup for Queen's. The chancellor often presides at graduation ceremonies and is also an ambassador for the university abroad. Mrs Clinton will also act as an advisor to the vice-chancellor Prof Ian Greer and senior management. The former Democratic presidential nominee . However, her connection to Northern Ireland stretches back over three decades. She first visited Northern Ireland as First Lady in November 1995 with her husband, President Bill Clinton. They spent a day meeting representatives from across the community and also . President Clinton was the first serving US president to visit Northern Ireland. Since then, . She was appointed US Secretary of State by President Barack Obama in 2009, serving for four years until stepping down in 2013. However, after winning the Democratic nomination for the White House . Mrs Clinton recently told the BBC that . The chair of the QUB senate - the university's governing body - Mr Stephen Prenter said he was delighted that she was the new chancellor. "Secretary Clinton has made a considerable contribution to Northern Ireland and as an internationally recognised leader will be an incredible advocate for Queen's and an inspirational role model for the Queen's community," he said. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.