The royal couple arrived in Sydney and were given the first of many gifts for their baby. Australia's Governor-General Sir Peter Cosgrove and his wife Lynne presented them with a toy kangaroo, complete with joey, as well as a little pair of Ugg boots. The baby is due in the spring. As well as Australia, the tour will see them visit New Zealand, Fiji and Tonga. Speaking in Sydney, Prince Harry said: "Thank you for the incredibly warm welcome and the chance to meet so many Aussies from all walks of life. "We also genuinely couldn't think of a better place to announce the upcoming baby, boy or girl." The duke and duchess were greeted at Sydney's Admiralty House by flag-bearing representatives from the 18 countries who will be competing at the Invictus Games. Prince Harry is one of the founders of the competition for injured military personnel. Presented with the cuddly kangaroo, Meghan said: "Our first baby gift!" while Prince Harry described the boots as "awesome". The couple who married in May, were also given Akubras, traditional Australian hats. When the duchess - wearing a white dress by Australian designer Karen Gee - was congratulated on her pregnancy, she replied: "Thank you so much. We are very excited." Later Harry and Meghan visited Sydney's Taronga Zoo and were introduced to two joeys named after them to mark their marriage. Meghan remarked that the koalas were "so, so sweet". Thousands of people congregated around Sydney Opera House, where the couple took part in a walkabout. They were given soft toys, flowers and other gifts by well-wishers. Among them was 98-year-old Daphne Dunne, whom Harry picked out and greeted warmly. Her first husband, Lieutenant Albert Chowne, died in 1945 during fighting in Papua New Guinea and was posthumously awarded the Victoria Cross, which Mrs Dunne was wearing when she first met Prince Harry in 2015. Meghan told her: "I'm so glad I got to meet you. Harry has told me all about you and your special bond, it's so lovely you came to see us, thank you." Speaking afterwards, Mrs Dunne said: "It was lovely to meet the duchess, Meghan. Harry is a wonderful man and I'm so happy he had found happiness, they both deserve the absolute world together." The duke and duchess's itinerary has not changed, despite pregnant women being advised against travelling to Fiji and Tonga because of the risk posed by the Zika virus. Kensington Palace says medical advice has been taken. The Queen and other senior royals were told about the pregnancy on Friday, when they gathered in Windsor for Princess Eugenie's wedding. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.