Although childcare is in place for vulnerable children and children of key workers, most providers will remain closed until later in the summer. The guidance includes caring for children in small groups and minimising contact between those groups. Nurseries are also being asked to maximise the use of outdoor space. There are also recommendations for enhanced hand hygiene and cleaning practice and physical distancing between adults and older children at drop-off and pick-up times. The guidance was developed in partnership with Health Protection Scotland, local authorities, representatives of private and third-sector childcare providers, trade unions and the Care Inspectorate. Children's Minister Maree Todd said: "We all want our youngest children to be back enjoying their nurseries and playing with friends as soon as possible. "However, the safety of children and staff must come first, so nurseries and other childcare settings can only fully reopen when public health advice tells us it is safe to do so." She added: "This new guidance makes clear the principles that should be followed in preparing for staff and children to return. "Our fantastic childcare practitioners know their settings best and they will be responsible for ensuring all necessary steps are taken to restart high-quality learning and care in a nurturing and safe environment." Guidance was previously published for childminders and fully outdoor nurseries who were able to reopen from 3 June, as part of phase one of lifting restrictions. Fiona Catto, who runs the Leaps and Bounds nursery in Paisley, has stayed open for the children of keyworkers throughout lockdown. Staff have been making more use of their outdoor area and constantly cleaning everything. "Although it's impossible to social distance young children, we decided to concentrate on decreasing contact and increasing cleaning," she said. "And it's constant handwashing." The nursery has also put 2m markings in place along with room dividers to keep children in separate "bubbles". Parents are no longer allowed into the building and the nursery is considering virtual tours for those considering sending their children to the nursery. "We were waiting with baited breath for this guidance today but nothing really has changed much for us," Ms Paton said "It's really just doing what we're doing." Clare Paton, from Glasgow, is a specialist nurse who would normally be running clinics in health centres. She has a daughter at nursery and a son in school. "I'm looking for clarification on the hours for the nurseries," she said. "What's going to change? Are we going to have less hours? Are the days going to be different? "At the moment, my daughter's in for three full days which covers the days that I work. If she's going to be part-time I'll need to try and find childcare elsewhere. "Her grandparents are able to help if the restrictions are eased in such a way that older people who are not shielding and in good health can help out. My parents are under 70. "There will be lots of people who are reliant on grandparents. I worry about how it will affect my daughter. I've tried to explain that it won't be the same when she goes back and she has asked questions about that." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.