"Tory shot me" after an argument in a car, rapper Megan claimed in an Instagram live. Singer Tory Lanez - whose real name is Daystar Peterson - was later charged with carrying a concealed weapon. Megan claimed she feared police would start shooting if she said a gun was involved, so she told them she'd stepped on broken glass. "I didn't tell the police nothing, because I didn't want us to get in no more trouble than we was about to get in." Tory was arrested at the time - 12 July - on the open charge of carrying a concealed firearm. He was released later that day. Radio 1 Newsbeat has contacted Tory Lanez' representatives for comment. Tory Lanez has been quiet since the incident but Megan Thee Stallion accused his team of spreading misinformation online. "Stop acting like black women is aggressive when all they be doing is speaking the... facts, and you... can't handle it," she said. She spoke about being called a "snitch" online - and also disputed claims that she hit Tory Lanez before the shooting. Megan has received support from JoJo and Kehlani. In response to questions from her fans, US singer JoJo Tory Lanez will not be appearing on the deluxe version of recent album Good to Know. It follows Kehlani saying the same about a track on her album that featured the Canadian singer. full transparency cuz i believe in that with my following, his verse is still on the song, the video is solo. new verse on the deluxe.  "As someone with a large platform, as someone that people look up to, as a woman that makes other women feel safe and empowered, people were asking me, 'Are you going to keep somebody on it who doesn't necessarily make us feel safe or empowered as a woman?'" Kehlani told Chicago radio station WGCI. "This is not an industry friendship. That's really my friend and someone I say I love you to," she added about Megan Thee Stallion. Megan, whose real name is Megan Pete, has previously described the incident but didn't say who shot her. "I had to get surgery to get it taken out, get the bullets taken out, and it was super scary," she said in July. She told her followers about what happened and referred to her family. Her mum - also her manager - died in March 2019. "It was just the worst experience of my life, and it's not funny," she said. "It's nothing to joke about and it's nothing for y'all to go and be making fake stories about. "I didn't put my hands on nobody. I didn't deserve to get shot." Despite being shot at least twice, she said her injuries weren't serious. "And thank God that the bullets didn't touch bones, they didn't break tendons," she said previously. "I know my mama and my daddy and my granny had to be looking out for me with that one, because where the bullets hit at, they missed everything, but they were in there. "And it's not that I was protecting anybody, I just wasn't ready to speak." Megan previously described it as an act "with the intention to physically harm me," in an Instagram post following the incident.  A post shared by (@theestallion) on quoted the LA Police Department at the time as saying one person was taken to the hospital "with a foot injury". Newsbeat has contacted the LA District Attorney, whose spokesperson it was considering whether to file charges against Tory Lanez. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.