The climate change campaigner, 17, made the trip to Lady Margaret Hall where she met the human rights campaigner, 22, on Tuesday. Ms Thunberg is set to . Ms Yousafzai is studying politics, philosophy, and economics at the university. The student posted a picture of the two young activists , saying simply: "Thank you @gretathunberg". "She's the only friend I'd skip school for," . Also , Ms Thunberg said: "So...today I met my role model. What else can I say?" It is not known what the pair discussed, though according to Alan Rusbridger, the principal of Lady Margaret Hall, Ms Thunberg spoke to students about "science, voting, the limits of protest, divestment, real zero v net zero, and much more" during her visit.  A post shared by (@arusbridger) on Replying to the young women's posts, others have declared them "legends" and described the meeting as "awesome". Posting on Twitter, one fan, : "Pure inspiration and hope - the world needs women like you." While : "Thanks for being the sheroes we need and for giving us hope." Jennifer Cassidy, a lecturer in politics at the University of Oxford, wrote: "I walk out my door, up one street and see @Malala and @GretaThunberg talking outside. "Two powerful young women standing for justice, truth and equality for all." Reason unlimited why I love this place. I walk out my door, up one street and see and talking outside. Two powerful young women standing for justice, truth and equality for all. So many, are so grateful, for all that you do. Keep shining bright. : Malala Good Morning Britain host Piers Morgan said: "What a photo... the two most influential young women of my lifetime meet in Oxford." What a photo... the two most influential young women of my lifetime meet in Oxford. More power to their formidable courageous elbows. [?] [?] [?] [?]  Others were less complimentary, describing the pair as "overrated". Twitter user Luis Hulyer : "One risked her life to go to school, the other plays truant." Two years ago, Ms Thunberg started missing lessons most Fridays to protest outside the Swedish parliament building, in what turned out to be the beginning of a huge environmental movement. She has become a leading voice for action on climate change, inspiring millions of students to join protests around the world. In 2012, Ms Yousafzai was shot in the head, neck and shoulder by a Taliban fighter while travelling home from school after writing an anonymous diary about life under the extremists. After recovering from her near-fatal injuries, she and her family relocated to Birmingham. In 2014, she became the , at the age of 17. Three years later she accepted a place to study at Oxford. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.