Dyfed-Powys officers from the Brecon Beacons on Monday and Tuesday. North Wales Police also stressed day trips to the hills and mountains were "not essential travel". Wales' national park authorities said those breaking rules to visit beauty spots were putting lives at risk. First Minister Mark Drakeford said he did not "understand" the actions seen by those heading to the national parks and people had to "stay at home" and not travel to go for walks. Currently, Wales is under a lockdown, which means individuals should stay at home and only exercise locally, starting and ending where they live. But in recent days large numbers of people have flocked to beauty spots in Snowdonia, the Brecon Beacons and Pembrokeshire national parks, with many driving to the areas to exercise. patrols ongoing and we're working with People have been advised, sent home & reported for summons (visitors from Rhyl, Llangollen, Wrexham, Bolton & West Mids) restrictions state exercise should start & finish from home  The three national park authorities have now issued a statement urging people to stay home, saying people were "ignoring" regulations and putting themselves and people living in the areas at risk. On Wednesday, North Wales Police roads policing unit said it had sent home people from Rhyl, Llangollen, Wrexham, Bolton and the West Midlands, who had travelled to Snowdonia. Tegryn Jones, chief executive of Pembrokeshire Coast NPA, said: "There is real concern that our rural health services will face increased pressure and social distancing measures will not be followed. "We understand the vital role that our National Parks have played this year in supporting people's health and wellbeing, and how much people have benefitted from access to the outdoors. "The time will come again when we can all enjoy the beauty and diversity of our parks, and we very much look forward to welcoming you back when that time is right and it is safe for you and safe for our communities." Insp Andrew Williams from Dyfed-Powys Police's specialist operations team said anyone caught committing "blatant breaches" of Covid rules would be fined. "We are carrying out high-visibility patrols at Storey Arms and engaging with people to remind them of their responsibilities to adhere to Welsh Government lockdown restrictions," he said. "There were a couple of hundred vehicles in the area yesterday." He said officers had to speak to one man who had driven from Hertfordshire to walk up Pen y Fan, while a minibus full of mixed households had travelled from Gloucestershire to the area. Three off-road vehicles from the West Midlands were also stopped on Tuesday in mid Wales by the force, and four people were reported for breaching Covid-19 regulations. Insp Williams said the "vast majority of people are listening to advice" and turn around once they spot the police vehicles. "Which is the objective of our high visibility patrols," he added. The Brecon Beacons National Park pushed the message home on social media: "Although the snow does look pretty on the mountains the current Welsh Government guidelines say people should only travel if it's essential. "No journeys of any significant distance should be taken, for example, just in order to exercise in the countryside or at beauty spots." North Wales Police it was aware "large numbers of people are visiting areas such as Snowdonia". "You should not be driving to these places, no matter how tempting," added force officials. The force added on Twitter: "We are engaging, educating and where necessary will enforce restrictions." It follows images shared by one north Wales mountain rescue team of cars parked at Pen-y-Pass at the foot of Snowdon, and around the Ogwen Valley. However, it is not just national parks visitors prompting concerns. In the Vale of Glamorgan, council officials have closed car parks at Barry Island following reports of crowds at beaches. One man visiting from Caldicot in Monmouthshire was fined after being stopped by police at the seaside town. The South Wales force said it had carried out 840 vehicle stops in the last week, including 88 on Tuesday, which led to 69 warning and four fixed penalties being issued. The council's leader Neil Moore used his New Year's message to warn residents: "It's about time some people woke up and smelled the coffee." He said he was aware that Barry Island and Penarth Marina had been "flooded by people" and that many "were clearly not locals". "Our NHS is being stretched and staff pushed to the limit following their experience at the sharp end of the pandemic," he added. "Every rule violation makes the situation worse, no matter how small it may seem, so in the strongest possible terms, I would urge everyone to stick closely to the restrictions, take their responsibilities seriously and stay safe." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.