Until Monday 9 November people living in Wales . Pubs, bars and restaurants, gyms, and all non-essential shops have been made to close. But what does it mean, and what can you do from 23 October to 9 November without breaking the law? Similar to during the first lockdown in March, people are being told to stay at home in a bid to curb the spread of coronavirus in Wales. You are only allowed to leave your house to go to the shops to buy essential food and medication, get health care and treatment, to provide care, or to take exercise. You should also work from home unless it is not possible. All but essential shops had been told to close from 18:00 BST on Friday. While people are not limited to their local authority, they are being told to shop as close to home as possible and not travel long distances. Supermarkets, pharmacies, post offices and banks remain open, but are being told not to sell non-essential items, such as clothing, toys and homeware. No. Under the new rules people cannot mix with others they do not live with. From Friday you are not meant to meet others indoors, or socialise outdoors, such as in parks or people's gardens. During local lockdowns people living alone were allowed to meet one other household indoors from their local areas, after concerns about isolation. This has not changed, with those who live alone or in a single parent households being the only ones able to meet a household they do not live with. This has to be the same one every time. But they can live anywhere, due to this being a national lockdown, however, the Welsh Government has urged people to form an extended household as "locally as possible". Over the coming days, expect to see a return to the days of Zoom chats, virtual parties, people waving at each other from the end of drives, and people leaving shopping on door steps. Primary and special schools will re-open as normal on 2 November after the half-term break - there is no extra time off. In secondary schools only pupils in Years 7 and 8 will go back to class. Pupils sitting exams will be able to go in to take them but all other pupils will continue their learning from home for an extra week. Childcare facilities are staying open during the 17 days in a bid to keep schools open. Grandparents and other relatives can still care for children, but only if no other methods of childcare are available. Where parents live apart, children will be allowed to continue to stay with both parents, with arrangements continuing as normal. No - from 18:00 BST on Friday pubs, bars, restaurants and hotels closed for 17 days. This is similar to the first Wales-wide lockdown back in March. Beer gardens will be shut, and people are being warned not to drink in their friends' homes or gardens, or to gather in parks. Pubs and food establishments are able to operate as takeaways. Hotels and businesses in the tourism sector will not reopen until 9 November. No, travelling to go on holiday in Wales, or outside Wales, including abroad, is not classed as "essential" travel during lockdown. If you have pre-booked and paid for a holiday, the Welsh Government is advising people to contact their travel company to discuss the situation. If you live outside of Wales or within Wales, travelling to stay, visit or check on your second home is illegal. You can travel to provide care or to help someone in need - such as an older person, a child or a vulnerable adult - even if they are not part of your household. You can travel to visit someone on "compassionate grounds". This may apply if you are worried someone is struggling with being isolated due to the restrictions, is having issues with their mental or physical health, has recently lost a loved one, or you are concerned about their wellbeing or welfare. Travel across the border is now limited to "essential travel". This includes providing care, or if you need to visit on compassionate grounds. If you live in a single person or single parent household you can travel across the border to visit your extended household. People who live in Wales but work over the border are able to travel, if they cannot work from home. Indoor visits to care homes may be allowed but only in "exceptional circumstances", such as for end-of-life visits. But this is up to local councils and individual homes to decide if it can be done safely, and must be prearranged. Similar rules apply to hospital and children's home visits. No - gyms, pools and leisure centres are now closed for the 17 days. However local parks, playgrounds and outdoor gyms remain open. Yes - under the new national lockdown you can leave your house for exercise. Unlike back in March, there is no limit to how many times you can leave the house to exercise or how far you can run, cycle, walk or jog, or to where - as local lockdown boundaries have now ended. But exercising with others, such as running and cycling clubs, is not allowed, and you should start your exercise from home. People are being asked not to drive anywhere to do sport as exercise, unless they have specific health reasons, and people are banned from driving "significant distances" to get to mountains, beaches and beauty spots. The government is also asking people to avoid activities which involve a "significant degree of risk", such as open water swimming and water sports. Golf and tennis clubs are required to close during the period of the lockdown. The Welsh Government has confirmed that community support groups, who meet on non NHS premises, such as Alcoholics Anonymous, will have to temporarily stop. This is due to gathering restrictions, and rules meaning you are not allowed to meet others from outside your own household. A spokesman said they would be able to meet online. The autumn Internationals and professional football are allowed to continue behind closed doors, and be broadcast into people's homes. Sportspeople who work and earn a living through sport are allowed to continue working, and like everyone else they can leave home to do so if they cannot work from home. However, All community, amateur sport and training is suspended during the 17 day period. People living in houses of multiple occupation (HMOs) who are single are able to "bubble up" with another household in Wales. This also applies to students living in HMOs and to people in supported living arrangements with individual tenancies. You can travel, but only for a "reasonable" cause. These include trips to buy essential items - such as food and medication - to seek medical help, get a coronavirus test, or to deliver care. You can also travel to work, but only if you are a critical worker, or you do a job where you cannot work from home. Travelling to go on holiday is against the law. Also, people from outside Wales cannot visit on holiday. Yes, but with reduced services. Economy Minister Ken Skates said he had asked train and bus operators to cut down their services, particularly outside peak hours. He said services would be similar to those running in August, and said it was "imperative" the remaining spaces were available for key workers and essential journeys. Taxis are allowed to run if they have measures to cut the risk of transmitting the virus in the car. But they should only be used for essential journeys. Cases have been confirmed at university halls of residence, with thousands of students self-isolating on campuses across Wales. During the 17 days students have been told not to head home, but to stay where they are.First Minister Mark Drakeford added: "In the same way we are asking everyone to stay at home, if students have reading weeks or half-term they will also need to stay at home in their university accommodation." During the last lockdown thousands of vulnerable people with medical conditions and the elderly where told to stay in the house and shield, due to being high-risk from the virus. However, the Welsh Government has not re-introduced shielding for such people. The first minister said this was because if everyone stuck strictly to the rules the risk of exposure would be reduced. People are being advised to shop at quieter times of the day if they are high risk. The Welsh Government has stressed that people should still seek medical help. Dentists, opticians, audiology services, chiropody, chiropractors, osteopaths, and counselling and mental health services will remain open. Many people resorted to home cuts during the last national lockdown back in March, with hairdressers trying to repair dodgy shaves and cuts when they reopened. Once again, you will have to wait until you can see your hairdresser again. Hair salons, barbers, and beauticians are now closed until the end of the national lockdown. During this 17-day lockdown places of worship are closed to congregations, apart from the holding of weddings, civil partnerships and funerals. Numbers allowed at ceremonies will depend on how many people can fit in the venue, with social distancing in place. Receptions are banned once again. Funerals can go ahead, with social distancing in place, and numbers depending on the venue size. You will not be allowed to host a wake or any gathering following the funeral. Yes, you can move house, if you cannot delay the moving date until after the short lockdown period is over. However, property viewings cannot take place during the circuit-breaker period and high street estate agencies are required to close. Work can be carried out in people's homes, for example by tradespeople, as long as it is managed in a safe way and both the worker and household members have no symptoms of coronavirus. But the Welsh Government is recommending people consider if the work can be safely deferred until after the lockdown. No work should be carried out in any home where someone is isolating, unless it is to repair a fault which poses a direct risk to people's safety. If the MoT on your vehicle is due, you should still take it to the garage. Driving lessons are banned, and driving tests are not going ahead. This will be an autumn like no other. With people banned from meeting outdoors, trick-or-treating and fireworks are both off. The ban will be "self-policing", says First Minister Mark Drakeford. However, planned Remembrance Day events on Sunday 8 November - just hours before the new lockdown ends - will be allowed to go ahead. You may be told to go home or removed from where you are and returned home. You could have to pay a fixed penalty notice of PS60. This will rise to PS120 for the second breach. Or you could have criminal proceedings brought against you and, if found guilty, you will have to pay a fine. The first minister has suggested there will not be a return to local lockdown measures in Wales once the 17 days are over. Instead of different communities having different rules, Mr Drakeford has stressed the need for national rules, which will apply in all parts of Wales, so that people will know who they can spend time with over the festive period. It remains to be seen what these measures will be. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.