In to the force's chief constable and the region's mayor, Priti Patel said she was "deeply concerned" after an in GMP's crime recording. But Greater Manchester mayor Andy Burnham accused her of failing to give of GMP. GMP has been approached for comment. In it found England's second-largest police force had failed to record about 220 crimes a day in the year up to June 2020 and closed cases without proper investigation. In a letter to the mayor and GMP's Chief Constable Ian Hopkins, the home secretary said the "report paints a worrying picture," adding "most troubling was the inspectorate's finding of a cause for concern in relation to safeguarding of the most vulnerable victims". She added: "These findings risk further eroding the confidence and trust that the people of Greater Manchester are entitled to have in their force's ability to keep them safe." In his response, Mr Burnham said, while he was also "deeply concerned" by the findings, he added "there have been a number of important points of progress which were not reflected in your letter". "While I can assure you I take the recent report as seriously as you do, I think it is important that we recognise the successes that police forces achieve," he said. "It is important to remember that, throughout all the challenges described above [in the letter], GMP have been dealing with one of the largest and most complex investigations in its history into the Manchester Arena attack." Following the publication of the report, domestic abuse charity Independent Choices in Greater Manchester described the findings as "extremely shocking" while Women's Aid said it was also alarmed by the watchdog review. Jane Gregory, from the Salford Survivor Project, said failing to report domestic abuse would have "a knock-on effect for future victims". A further inspection of GMP will take place in six months. northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.