Peter Coll QC began an last week. He is examining arrangements agreed with Belfast City Council for the cremation. It is now clear he will investigate the actions not just of council officials, but elected representatives. The Storey family was allowed up to 30 people outside the crematorium, but the same access was on the same day. . Mr Coll has been asked to investigate whether "preferential treatment" was sought for the Storey family by any political representatives. He has also been told to check CCTV footage and to look into any contacts with the PSNI about the arrangements at Roselawn. On Monday, BBC News NI's Talkback programme revealed details of Mr Coll's terms of reference. Later, Belfast City Council published the terms in full with a total of 14 "key concerns". Mr Coll's remit includes: In terms of politicians, Mr Coll has been asked to "review when and if decisions were communicated to elected representatives, which elected representatives they were communicated to and when they were so communicated". The lawyer will investigate exactly how decisions were made. His terms of reference include to "examine whether the decisions were improperly motivated and whether inappropriate influence was brought to bear". Mr Coll has been asked to complete his report within six weeks. The council has made it clear that the eight families denied access to Roselawn will be entitled to talk to Mr Coll. A council spokesperson said: "Council will ensure that any relatives of families impacted may speak directly with Mr Coll QC should they wish to do so." Last week, one of the council officials involved in decision-making around Roselawn, Nigel Grimshaw, retired. However, Mr Grimshaw, who worked as director of city and neighbourhood services, will still co-operate with the independent investigation. Mr Coll, an experienced barrister, was one of the lawyers involved in the recent at Stormont. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.