Brian Stanley said the content of the now-deleted tweet was "inappropriate and insensitive". The post had linked the Narrow Water bombing, near Warrenpoint, County Down, to an ambush at Kilmichael, County Cork, in 1920. That incident saw 17 members of the Royal Irish Constabluary (RIC) killed. Mr Stanley wrote: "The 2 IRA operation that taught the elite of d British army and the establishment the cost of occupying Ireland. Pity for everyone they were such slow learners." The tweet was condemned by First Minister Arlene Foster, who described it as "shameful". She said she planned to raise it with the Ceann Comhairle, the chairperson and speaker in the Dail (Irish parliament). I will be writing to the Ceann Comhairle of the Dail about this shameful tweet. Although deleted, it is outrageous that someone with such warped views can hold a senior position in the Dail. SF talk about respect & equality but there's not much sign of respect for victims. In a Twitter post, she said: "Although deleted it is outrageous that someone with such warped view can hold a senior position in the Dail. "Sinn Fein talk about respect and equality but there's not much sign of respect for victims." In a statement on Sunday night, a Sinn Fein spokesperson said the party had noted Mr Stanley, who is also the chair of the Dail Public Accounts Committee, had deleted a tweet that was "inappropriate and insensitive and that he has apologised". The spokesperson added: "We all have a responsibility in this decade of centenaries to remember and commemorate the past in a respectful manner." Ulster Unionist Party MLA Doug Beattie said the comments prove that there would be "no place for those who identify as unionist or British in a United Ireland". "Sinn Fein offer a perversion of history and don't spare a thought for the relatives who still grieve for the lost lives of their loved ones, murdered by the IRA," he said. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.