Islanders had been free from social distancing rules since 11 June, but they must now stay at home. Guernsey's Director of Public Health Dr Nicola Brink said none of the four had travelled into the island or were contacts of known cases or travellers. The new cases were confirmed by tests on Friday and contact tracing was under way, she said. Chief Minister Peter Ferbrache said it must be assumed that the cases were "the result of community seeding". He said: "We are announcing a lockdown with immediate effect - we're telling the community to stay at home. "The good thing is, unlike before, this is not new to us. "We've done this once already and we know that, as a community, together we can do this successfully and keep each other safe." Under the new rules, people should stay at home unless they are seeking medical care, carrying out shopping for food and essential supplies or for two hours outdoor exercise each day. Islanders must not mix with anyone outside their household, except for people who live on their own, who may exercise with one person outside their household, while socially distancing. "If you can work at home, you must do so. Those who can not work at home should only work if they are essential or key workers," added Deputy Ferbrache. A list of key and essential roles will be published later on Saturday, but the chief minister said it would be very similar to the first lockdown in March 2020. Retail shops and restaurants will have to close, with takeaway and delivery services also being ruled out, although that will be reviewed "in the coming days". Schools will close, except for children of key workers, or from vulnerable families. People should still attend their vaccination appointments as long as they feel well, he said, and the community vaccination centre at Beau Sejour will open on Monday as planned. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.