Members of the Royal College of Surgeons of England say they doubt the NHS can meet targets to restore surgery back to near pre-pandemic levels. Planned procedures such as hip replacements were paused to free up beds during lockdown in the spring. And hospitals have since been dealing with a backlog. In July, NHS England boss hospitals should by September 2020 be performing at least 80% of their September 2019 rates of: And by October, this proportion should rise to 90%. more than two million people have been waiting longer than 18 weeks for routine operations, with 83,000 waiting more than a year - up from 2,000 before the pandemic. More than 140,000 operations such as knee and hip replacements were performed in July 2020, up from 41,000 in April. But that is less than half the level seen in July 2019. The Royal College of Surgeons of England surveyed nearly 1,000 members in September and found: President of the college Prof Neil Mortensen said: "This is a national crisis requiring a truly national effort across all hospitals - private and NHS alike. "As the virus becomes more prevalent again, there is a real risk of a tsunami of cancelled operations unless surgical beds are funded and protected. "That means building up theatre capacity and designating beds exclusively for those who need an operation." The poll also found: An NHS spokesman said the survey underestimated the amount of surgery now happening in the NHS, adding that goals for the end of August were met. "The NHS has flexed its hospital capacity and community services as needed throughout the pandemic, treating over 110,000 severely ill people for Covid-19, and doubling the number of non-urgent operations since April. More people are set to benefit from the deal struck with independent hospitals also to make use of their bed capacity. "Covid inpatient numbers are rising and much depends on keeping the virus under control through continued public action on hands-face-space, Test and Trace service, and rapid action to control local outbreaks," he said. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the to submit your question or comment or you can email us at . Please include your name, age and location with any submission. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.