Instead of attending the services and parades, people are asked to observe a two-minute silence on their doorstep. But those who want to have still been wearing poppies - . They're not all the same, though - so what's different about the Scottish poppy? It has the same recognisable blood red colour, but it has four-lobed petals and no leaf, in contrast to the poppy used in the rest of the UK which has two and sometimes sports a green leaf. Poppies sold in Scotland are made at Lady Haig's poppy factory in Edinburgh by 35 veterans - the majority with disabilities - who have served everywhere from Korea to the first Gulf War. When it was founded back in 1926, it introduced a different style of poppy and has stuck to it ever since. Poppyscotland, which raises money to support armed forces north of the border, also said it would be "botanically incorrect" to add a leaf. The poppy as a symbol of remembrance was started by the American humanitarian Moina Michael, who was inspired by Lt Colonel John McCrae's poem In Flanders Fields describing small red plants growing on the graves of soldiers buried in northern France and Belgium during World War One. She began the poppy wearing and others soon followed. However, after the first Poppy Appeal in 1921, demand for the simple symbol could not be fulfilled north of the border. So, in 1926, Lady Haig - wife of Field Marshal Earl Haig - decided to open a which would be staffed by a team of disabled war veterans. It's all-year round work for Poppyscotland, the result being: As for the rest of the UK, the Royal British Legion produces: No, fundraisers produce all kinds of poppy-related merchandise, from wreaths, brooches, umbrellas, diaries and T-shirts. The idea to branch out came in the very early days. In 1928 Lady Haig decided the Edinburgh factory should expand into hand-crafted goods, including stuffed toys and jigsaw puzzles. Today, fundraisers raise money in similar ways to other charities - everything from bake sales to bungee jumps are undertaken. Poppyscotland is part of the Royal British Legion group of charities. The British Legion operates across England, Wales and Northern Ireland. Poppyscotland operates as a distinct charity north of the border - and all money raised in Scotland is spent here. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.