The businessman and father of Kirk Norcross, who also appeared in the ITV show, was found dead at his home in Bulphan at 15:15 GMT on Thursday. Essex Police said the death was not being treated as suspicious. In tributes on social media, fellow Towie stars past and present, including Gemma Collins and James "Arg" Argent, called him "one of the good guys" and a "true gentleman". Norcross first appeared in the reality show in 2011 in his position as owner of Sugar Hut, a Brentwood nightclub which was often attended by the cast. He left the show two years later, stating that the venue's prominent place in Towie had damaged its brand. The star posted a to his 505,000 followers on Thursday morning saying: "At the end remind yourself that you did the best you could. And that's good enough." So sad to hear the news today of the passing of Mr Sugarhut  A very talented, friendly and fun guy, who made a huge mark on Brentwood. A true Essex legend who will be sorely missed, our condolences to his family and friends at this sad time. RIP Mick [?] The club tweeted that "Mr Sugarhut" had been a "very talented, friendly and fun guy" and a "true Essex legend, who will be sorely missed". Collins, who briefly dated Norcross during their time on the show, shared a photo of them together on Instagram and said he had been "one of the good guys", while Argent that he had been "a true gentleman and a very kind man". Tributes were also shared by Towie stars Lauren Goodger and Mario Falcone, with the latter that he was "thankful I got the privilege of having you in my life". In another , Mark Wright, the Towie star turned , said he was "a great man, an inspiration to many, always so polite and welcoming". Presenter Denise Van Outen that he was "such a lovely man" while TV chef James Martin, that he was "a true gentleman, who I had the pleasure to meet and spend evenings with over the years". The Only Way Is Essex posted , saying the team behind the show were "shocked and deeply saddened". They said: "He was hugely popular with cast, crew and the audience alike. Charming, generous and host to many of Essex's most glamorous events, Mick will be missed by us all." An Essex Police spokesman said officers "were called to an address in Brentwood Road, Bulphan shortly before 15:15 on Thursday" and "sadly, a man inside was pronounced dead". The police spokesman said the death was "not being treated as suspicious and a file will be prepared for the coroner". . The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.