In a note sent to councillors, Belfast City Council said the decision to close Avoniel Leisure Centre was taken "due to the potential threat" to workers. A loyalist bonfire is being built in the leisure centre's car park. Tensions have been building ahead of bonfires being lit before the Twelfth of July marches. Bonfires are lit in some Protestant areas on 11 July, the evening before thousands of Orange Order members commemorate the Battle of the Boyne with parades across Northern Ireland. The fires mark William of Orange's victory over the Catholic King James II at the Battle of the Boyne in 1690 and supporters say they are an important part of loyalist culture. The "barricade" at Avoniel Leisure Centre came after: Staff opened Avoniel Leisure Centre for a short time on Sunday morning, having initially been prevented from doing so. Belfast City Council said "very few customers were able to get into the centre" and the decision was taken to close it at about 12:30 BST. On Sunday evening, the gates were open and the site was quiet. The Democratic Unionist Party's (DUP) East Belfast MP Gavin Robinson said the actions of the men at the leisure centre were "wrong and should not be a part of our, or any, community". "Leisure centre staff were going to work to provide a service to the people of east Belfast - they should not have been subjected to this criminal behaviour. "Those responsible should face up to the consequences of their disgraceful actions - they are hurting their own community." In its note to councillors, the council said the matter would be reviewed on Monday morning and it would remain in contact with police. The Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) said it would make inquiries. The Alliance Party leader Naomi Long said the situation was "absolutely disgraceful". "The community should not be deprived of facilities because of thuggery," added the MEP, who is based in east Belfast. The SDLP councillor Seamas de Faoite said it was "shameful behaviour we've long expected to be left in the past". A few hours earlier, tyres from a nearby bonfire in the south of the city were taken away after an order from the council. Contractors, accompanied by police, arrived at the site on London Road at about 07:00 BST, with Lismore Street cordoned off. The action was being taken to remove tyres but not to dismantle the bonfire, according to the council. In Belfast, dozens of people had gathered along Lismore Street on Sunday morning to watch tyres being removed from the London Road bonfire. Belfast City Council said its approach to "managing bonfires" is "led by elected members". "A member-led decision-making process has been agreed to consider issues and make decisions on a site-by-site basis," it added. Tyres should not be burned on bonfires, said the Progressive Unionist Party (PUP) councillor John Kyle. Discussions had taken place between the bonfire builders and the council and the builders were aware the tyres would be removed, he added. "The council only removed tyres - the wood material is still there. "We need so see the Environment Agency prosecuting the dealers who supply the tyres." The Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) said its officers were present for the removal of the tyres "to ensure that there was no breach of the peace". Residents living near the growing bonfire on a large council-owned green in the Corcrain area of Portadown have been advised to leave their homes. The South Ulster Housing Association, which owns three blocks of flats at the edge of the green, has written to residents, saying the bonfire "poses a serious health and safety risk". The bonfire has been deemed to be too close to some of the flats. In its letter to residents - a copy of which was posted on Twitter by Ulster Unionist MLA Doug Beattie - the housing association said the bonfire "poses a risk of damage to your property". I know some will read this in a certain way but this is not acceptable. "Assuming the expected size of the bonfire the council advice evacuating residents from the affected blocks of flats" When the elderly or vulnerable are affected it is beyond a display of identity & culture According to the association, the fire service states that a bonfire should be a minimum of five times its height away from the nearest property. Alternative temporary accommodation has been offered by the housing association "due to the gravity of the situation". The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.