Under the government legislation, places of worship are able to during England's current lockdown. But Norwich Cathedral has decided to suspend public worship and move its services online from Wednesday. The Dean of Norwich, the Very Reverend Jane Hedges, says the decision was made with a "heavy heart". But she says with regard to the coronavirus pandemic, it is "important to reinforce the message that people should stay at home". The cathedral says its "virtual doors" remain open online to both worshippers and visitors alike via its the website and social media. The Sunday Eucharist will be live-streamed every week on the cathedral's and full details of how people can participate in daily worship at home are available on the cathedral's . In line with government guidance, the Norman building remains open daily for individual prayer. Dean Hedges says: "We all need to look out for each other at this time and to heed the message to stay at home as much as possible." She says they will resume public services "as soon as we can". "While we may not be able to gather for public worship or welcome general visitors at this time, we hope the cathedral's digital worship and online events will be of help and comfort to people at this difficult time for everyone," she adds. The cathedral's organists will play weekly online organ recitals throughout the lockdown. Norwich Central Mosque has decided to suspend its communal worship, usually attended by about 95 people on Fridays. Secretary Sirajul Islam says: "We have reviewed the situation with everything that's going on and we should play our part to not allow a big gathering and not spread the virus. "We will being doing another review in two weeks." He says the mosque, on Aylsham Road, is still open for private prayer, which he says is needed to offer people "relief" and a place to go for those who are isolated. "We need to pray in this time of the pandemic," he adds. Meanwhile, Norwich's Roman Catholic cathedral, St John the Baptist, remains open for 17 masses a week. It is the second largest Roman Catholic cathedral in the country, behind Westminster Cathedral, and says it has the space for people to remain socially distanced. Cathedral coordinator Daniel Justin says while they would normally welcome 1,200 people across all of five of Sunday masses, they are currently limited to 170 per service. He says they are seeing about 50 to 70 people per mass, which is "like a postage stamp in this building". Mr Justin says: "As long as we can maintain our plans to ensure our place of worship is safe, we must keep our church open for mass and private prayer. "It really is a place where people can come for comfort and solace." He says parishioners must wear masks, wipe down their benches before they leave and sanitise their hands, and the Unthank Road cathedral is cleaned after each service. They have encouraged people to attend the various masses across the week, rather than fill up the Sunday service, and they also stream their , he adds. In the areas of the UK where communal worship is allowed, a number of are in place: The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.