Annabelle Smith, 29, lost her job as a marketing manager in March, then from a property company in May and finally as an assistant gym manager in December. "I didn't think I'd be made redundant once during my working life let alone three times," she said. Chancellor Rishi Sunak has said every job lost is "a tragedy". Ms Smith said she was going into debt, with each subsequent job she took meaning a drop in salary. During periods of furlough she was paid 80% of her wage before being made redundant with no payment. Originally from London, she has a rental contract on a studio apartment in Leeds city centre which runs until April. "I've been independent for years, I left home at 18, and it would be a huge impact to have to go back home to my family and uproot my life," she said. Now looking for a new job, Ms Smith says she is a hard worker and "a grafter, I want to work," but "so many people are fighting for the same thing". "I can't survive on benefits and I don't know when lockdown is going to finish, I am going to go into debt. I am going to have to be very careful with money," she says. "I am giving up the luxuries like cooking a good meal and it is those things that are nice and help you during lockdown. "It is going to take a longer road to get out of here than we thought when it started", she said. Source . Chancellor Mr Sunak has said the government is "throwing everything" at helping . Ms Smith said the rejections after her job applications were "hard to take" and she worried employers would think she was overqualified for some jobs. "Hopefully somebody will understand and say 'I like the sound of her' and offer me a job", she said. "It's that feeling of 'why me?' and 'how's this happened again?' "I am not blaming anyone. I understand all my employers' decisions", she added. Simon Betts, from the Department of Work and Pensions in Leeds, said: "Numbers of claims for benefit are increasing and we are putting additional provision in place to help. "We have job entry targeted support after 13 weeks of unemployment and job finding support available from day one - both to get people back into work. "There is also extra training available for professional roles and all can be got by speaking to a work coach at a local Job Centre." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.