Schools have only been open to children of key workers since restrictions were put in place on 20 March. Many schools are having pupils return on a phased basis. Councils have been given some flexibility but the Scottish government wants all schools fully open by 18 August. On Tuesday . Except for children of key workers, most of the country's 700,000 pupils have not been in class since schools closed in March. As students returned, additional hygiene and safety measures, such as one-way systems were put in place. While there is no requirement for physical distancing between pupils, teachers should remain 2m apart from students or other adults. Older secondary pupils are also being encouraged to maintain distancing where possible if this does not hinder the return to full-time learning. Face masks will only have to be worn by staff who cannot effectively social distance, however anyone who wishes to wear one should be allowed. School buses are treated as part of the school building, so normal distancing or face covering rules do not apply to pupils, but they will have to sanitise their hands prior to boarding. Local authorities across Scotland are taking different approaches with the time frame for reopening. , , and welcomed all pupils back full time on Wednesday. Many children who attend school in the , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , , and council areas are returning to school on a phased basis. All pupils will be back in school on a full-time basis by Tuesday 18 August at the latest. The reopening of a number of schools in Fife and the north east has . Fife Council said some schools, which were due to accept pupils for the first time since lockdown, . Glenrothes and Lochgelly high schools are closed, as are Auchtertool, Benarty Burntisland, Cardenden, Collydean, Denend, Kinghorn, Kinglassie, St Ninians, Torbain, Torryburn and Valley primary schools and their associated nurseries. Freuchie Nursery is also closed, while Fair Isle Primary School is partially closed. , Mackie Academy in Stonehaven said it could not accept pupils after roads to the town became impassable. Dunnottar school also said it could not reopen after lockdown after the area around the building was completely flooded and impassable even on foot. Banchory-Devenick School, Carronhill School, Glenbervie School, Hillside School, Johnshaven School, Lairhillock School, Mackie Academy, Mearns Academy, Mill O' Forest School, Peterhead Central School, Portlethen Academy and School and Rothienorman School will also all remain closed. In one council area, teachers were seeing double as nine sets of twins started school. The 18 pupils entered primary one in Inverclyde on Wednesday, with eight of the sets posing for photographs on Tuesday. A total of 16 sets of twins were eligible to start school in the area this month but the parents of seven pairs decided to defer until next year. Inverclyde Council said the area was increasingly a hotspot for twins, with the incidence of multiple births in 2015 - the year the majority of this year's new starters were born - at 2.25% locally compared to the Scottish average of 1.15% of live births. Ahead of the majority of schools reopening, Scotland's largest teaching union - the EIS - lodged grievances with two councils over what it claimed were failures to facilitate the phased return of pupils. The Scottish Borders and Moray local authorities have, the union said, failed to properly consult and reach agreement with it and other trade unions The EIS said a lack of discussion around the flexibility of phased returns meant staff were under "intense pressure" over schools reopening. A Scottish Borders Council spokesman said it was "extremely disappointed" and that the action would create "unnecessary concern for parents and pupils". A Moray Council spokesman said: "There are arrangements in place across our schools to help pupils and staff phase back to normal in the first few days, including staggered starts and soft introductions to the curriculum, particularly for those in transition years of P1 and S1." Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.