The Clean Air Zone, which will see daily fees for older vehicles driving in the city centre, was originally due to be implemented in January this year. However, it was delayed by issues with vehicle-checking software and the economic impact of coronavirus. Birmingham's air pollution is "a public health risk" thought to contribute to 900 deaths a year, the council said. The Clean Air Zone (CAZ) will cover all roads inside Birmingham's A4540 Middleway ring road and the council estimates the charges will apply to about 25% of vehicles on the city's roads. The proposed charges for high-polluting vehicles are PS8 for cars and PS50 for buses and HGVs, with some exemptions. It is also part of a wider from driving through the city centre by 2031. "Poor air quality remains a public health risk and a Clean Air Zone provides the city with an effective tool for tackling this issue in the shortest possible time," Cllr Waseem Zaffar, cabinet member for transport and environment, said. While , Cllr Zaffar said traffic was "now nearly back to pre-Covid levels" and introducing the CAZ next summer was "right for the city". So will it be a case of third time lucky on the rescheduling front for Birmingham's Clean Air Zone? Or unlucky, depending on your point of view? The controversial zone is the only one planned outside of London which will see a charge for private vehicles. Some argue it will economically disadvantage those already struggling, and that was before coronavirus hit. But the city council has remained clear that its direction of travel is... much less travel. And yes, cleaner air is a government requirement, but it's also an crucial aspiration. It seems the infrastructure is in place and the will, and indeed the legal necessity, is very much there to make this a reality next June. But in these swiftly changing times, it's still a fairly long way off. The city council received multiple warnings about air pollution and was told . The policy has attracted criticism, with claims businesses and low-income residents will be particularly hard-hit. , arguing cabs should be exempt from the charges and demanding more support from the council. The council has said it will provide a number of exemptions and incentives. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.