523,100 79.5% (September), 68.9% (January) 8.8% It is responsible for hospitals in Swansea, Neath and Bridgend. Morriston Hospital in Swansea - a major trauma unit - had more than 40% of its A&E patients waiting more than four hours last December. identified too much bed capacity was wasted last year through unnecessary delays for patients in hospital beds and that there was also not enough capacity at times to meet peak demands in emergency departments with extended waits and on ambulances. There were also staffing problems due to shortages in some professions. It aims to: 296,000 84.5% (September), 78.7% (January) 7.9% 580,400 82.4% (September), 71.1% (January) 8.4% From this time last year, hospitals experienced a 7% increase in emergency admissions - which was around an extra 70 patients a week. About 30% of patients at A&E at one of its two main general hospitals, the Royal Gwent in Newport, were seeing waits of more than four hours. A health board spokesman said: "We have plans in place to increase our capacity during periods of high demand. "We will also communicate with our staff to ensure their wellbeing is supported through busy periods." 694,000 70.9% (September), 71.3% (January) 9.8% Analysis of four years worth of winter pressures saw two distinct sharp peaks in ambulance arrivals immediately after the Christmas and New Year periods. It also found the number of discharges significantly drops at the weekend, and reduces (even more) in the week between Christmas Day and New Year's Day. 481,900 85.8% (September), 77.6% (January) 7.3% The A&E department at Wales' biggest hospital, Cardiff's University Hospital Wales, saw nearly 10,500 patients last December but bosses said it performed "fairly well" last winter when compared with the rest of Wales. It said there was more work to do on patient flow and further scope for "joined up" working to reduce delayed transfers of care. An additional ward will be available and it said it was "vital that the work on reducing length of stay was successful". Proposals include: 384,000 84.1% (September), 78.8% (January) 10.2% The main A&E departments at hospitals in Aberystwyth, Haverfordwest and Carmarthen all saw more patients attending last December than in 2015. The health board, this time around, has already warned of issues around the "significant level of nurse vacancies". It said due to the "inability of backfilling vacant posts this could compromise the ability to increase bed capacity or maintain current bed stock to meet the demands at the front door. There is a risk this may result in a backlog of ambulances and significant safety issues". Joe Teape, health board director of operations, said it was normal and good practice to consider all potential risks that they were likely to face. "We have a number of services that experience higher vacancy levels and up until now, in the main, we have managed to keep all of our services running through the hard work of our teams and use of temporary staff to backfill vacancies," he said. "We are continuing to work hard to recruit to vacant posts and to work with all of our teams to appropriately staff the services we deliver. "Members of the public can also help us by booking their flu jab early, using community healthcare services like their local pharmacist for minor ailments, and making sure friends, family and neighbours are being well looked-after." 132,600 99.9% 11.4% There are no general hospitals in the county but the health board said it was focusing on reducing inappropriate demand on acute services and improving flow of patients in the acute care system. Its focus is on: The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.