"She will remain in isolation for the time being. She is feeling well, is taking all the recommended precautions and her symptoms remain mild," it read. The couple is now self-isolating. Mr Trudeau is in good health and has no symptoms, according to his office, but will remain in isolation for 14 days. There are no plans at present for Mr Trudeau to be tested for coronavirus. "The prime minister will continue to fully assume his duties and will address Canadians tomorrow [Friday]," his office said. There are currently approximately 103 confirmed cases of the coronavirus in Canada. Ms Gregoire Trudeau began to show mild flu-like symptoms including a low fever late on Wednesday night after returning from the UK. Among other engagements she had been at a charity event attended by 12,000 people at Wembley Arena for WE day, an annual series of youth empowerment events. She shared a stage with former Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard and singer Leona Lewis. Other guests at the event included celebrity chef Jamie Oliver, actor Idris Elba and Formula 1 driver Lewis Hamilton. After she tested positive for Covid-19, Ms Gregoire Trudeau said: "Although I'm experiencing uncomfortable symptoms of the virus, I will be back on my feet soon. "We will get through this situation together. Please share the facts and take your health seriously." Health workers will contact people whom Mrs Gregoire Trudeau has recently met. However, those who have been in contact with the prime minister are deemed not to be at risk, as Mr Trudeau has shown no symptoms. A number of politicians around the globe have been self-isolating in recent days after coming into possible contact with the virus, including five senior US Republicans and a Canadian cabinet minister. Mr Trudeau was scheduled to hold meetings over the next two days in Ottawa with provincial premiers and First Nations leaders. Those meetings have been postponed. Mr Trudeau will now be speaking with those provincial counterparts over the phone, with the topic focusing on Canada's response to the pandemic, said the prime minister's office in a statement. Another federal party leader, the NDP's Jagmeet Singh, said on Thursday he was also staying at home because he was feeling unwell, though doctors have told him that his symptoms are not consistent with the coronavirus. "Their advice is for me to limit contact with the public until I am feeling better," he said on Twitter. There are currently approximately 103 confirmed cases of the coronavirus  in Canada, in the provinces of British Columbia, Ontario, Alberta, Quebec, and Manitoba. There has been one death linked to the disease. Canada announced on Wednesday  a C$1bn ($728m; PS562m) coronavirus response fund to deal with the pandemic. The funding package will help the country address the domestic impact of the virus and to support further research, including vaccine development. Mr Trudeau said his government was ready to do more if the situation warranted. Speaking to reporters on Wednesday, the prime minister urged Canadians to follow the recommendations of public health officials in order to help slow the spread of the disease and to avoid overburdening the health care system. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.