across a wide area of east and south-east England from Saturday, bringing the total number of people under tier three in England to 38 million. Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire, Berkshire and Hertfordshire are among them, as are parts of Surrey, East Sussex, Cambridgeshire and Hampshire, while swathes of the nation already in tier three will remain there. Health Secretary Matt Hancock said: "We've come so far, we mustn't blow it now." But Labour leader Sir Keir Starmer said he was concerned the current tiered system wasn't "strong enough to control the virus". See all the places moving in to tier three . Not sure which tier you're in? can help. There will be a , with many years doing online classes at first. In England, only students in Years 11 and 13, who face exams next summer, will be allowed to go back on the first day of term, along with the children of key workers and those deemed vulnerable. The government said it needed to allow Scotland and Northern Ireland have not announced any changes to the start of the January term yet. for one month until the end of April next year, saying it would provide "certainty for millions of jobs and businesses". It means the government will continue to pay up to 80% of the salary of UK employees for hours not worked, with a cap of PS2,500 a month. See whether you might be eligible for furlough Home Secretary Priti Patel has said a fellow Conservative and could be fined. Tory MP Tobias Ellwood defended his attendance at the "fully Covid compliant" event as being "well intentioned", and apologised if he had "muddled" the government's message. It's not just Santa who'll be supping on the sherry this Christmas, it seems. After years of being out of fashion, the Spanish aperitif has made a comeback, Analysts say the renewed interest began during the first coronavirus lockdown, when both young people and old started trying different tipples and even mixing their own cocktails. Find more information, advice and guides on our . And, as we all continue to grapple with how to spend Christmas, . Use this form to ask your question: If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the to submit your question or send them via email to . Please include your name, age and location with any question you send in. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.