Released on Tuesday morning, stocks of the highly anticipated PS449 machine depleted within hours. But sellers on eBay have posted the new model on the platform at a higher price. Several posts offer same day or next day delivery, for up to PS5,000 per Xbox. But most consoles sold recently went for between PS600 and PS800. Comments from eBay users criticised sellers for inflating the prices. "You are disgusting," one comment said. "There are kids out there that are desperate for this console." "Such is the world today when people exist to extort people," another added. However, others said this was to be expected and customers could wait until stocks were replenished to buy the Xbox Series X at its recommended retail price. "Expensive, but you get what you paid for," one comment said. "Because of the lockdown, most stock is non-existent and there is huge demand for this. "It would have been expensive even without the lockdown. "So, it is a perfect storm, but - again - there is simply no substitute to having the absolute best console on the market right now." Microsoft released two consoles - the Xbox Series X and a smaller, digital-only version Xbox Series S - worldwide on 10 November. People have been pre-ordering the models since September, but stock made available today has sold out quickly online and remains in short supply. The consultancy Ampere Analysis expects sales of 13.5 million Xbox Series X and S consoles by the end of 2021. "Selling stock at inflated prices is a well-established trend, even in the games market," said Louise Shorthouse, senior analyst at Ampere Analysis. "Given the backdrop of 2020, the console companies have likely been a little cautious in terms of estimating what they could produce and demand. "People posting pictures and videos of their new hardware on social media exacerbates the fomo [fear of missing out] that many Xbox enthusiasts will be experiencing, and this is fuelling resellers on sites like eBay. "This type of social media hype would not have existed in earlier generations of consoles." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.