More than 150 firefighters are still fighting the blaze in Wareham Forest where hotspots continue to flare up. About 550 acres (220 hectares) have now been damaged. Dorset and Wiltshire Fire and Rescue Service said it expects to be on the scene for "many" more days and the risk of wildfires remained "really high". It asked the public not to have any barbecues over the coming days in case they got out of control, and urged people to avoid the area. Group manager Dave Graham, speaking at the scene, called the operation "really challenging". "The escalation risk, because of the high winds we're experiencing, [means] if a fire catches hold it escalates really quickly", he added. The fire service said it had a "significant presence" at the site overnight, with crews "working incredibly hard, in arduous conditions". These include firefighters from fire services in Devon and Somerset, Hampshire, Berkshire, and south Wales. The fire service said: "We continue to deal with multiple hotspots flaring up and some fire spread. "Our resources are stretched, please help us by not doing anything that could lead to another fire elsewhere." Tactical burns are being used to help control the spread of the fire, and they will continue to be implemented overnight. During this time 100 firefighters will remain at the scene, with the numbers reassessed on Monday. Heathland bike patrols are also monitoring areas in Upton Heath, Canford Heath, Ham Common, Turbury Common, and Kinson Common. Wareham Fire Station showing the scenes of devastation, with photos of wildlife killed in the fires. It said it had been "overwhelmed" by the support of the public during the blaze. A helicopter was brought in on Saturday to "water bomb" the area as smoke drifted as far as Bournemouth. It has been stood down at present but remains on standby. The blaze may initially have been started by a , investigators believe. One third of the 3,700-acre forest is designated as a Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI) and is home to rare birds, plants and invertebrates. On Wednesday, Forestry England estimated it could The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.