The unanimous decision was taken as "uncertainties" had been raised regarding the "significant application" during a meeting of the council's planning committee. Planners had recommended refusal for the Lakelands Retail and Leisure Park. It is located a mile from the town centre. The site was previously a Unipork factory on Cornagrade Road. The developer Elm Grange Ltd said the PS15.5m investment would create 150 jobs in construction and 350 operational jobs. A planning officer told the meeting that the council had identified a preferable town centre location for the proposed development. That site comprises Station Green, which already has planning approval for retail units, the former TP Topping car showroom, and the South West College which will soon be moving to a new building. They described this area as "an ideal location in terms of retail and leisure", in close proximity to the town centre, other retail units and public transport. The planning officer said the out of town proposal was contrary to planning policy, would have a significant adverse impact on existing businesses and the vitality and viability of the town centre. As well as six retail units, the plans also include a 54-bedroom hotel, food outlet, coffee pod, cinema, bowling alley, children's soft play area and petrol station, as well as 751 car parking spaces. The Range and Brunswick Moviebowl have been confirmed as occupants if planning permission is granted, with construction ready to start in the new year. The developer claims the retail and leisure park would bring in PS750,000 annual rates to the council and generate PS3.5m a year in salaries. Representatives of the developer told the meeting that councillors were being "led astray"by the planner's recommendation to refuse permission. They claimed the alternative location had never been advanced and was unsuitable as it was comprised of different sites divided by the main access road into Enniskillen. They also said the owners of TP Topping had said the former car showroom was not available. The plans for the out of town development have divided public opinion. An online petition started by the developer to urge councillors to overrule the planning officers' recommendation for refusal has been signed by more than 1,000 people. Opponents argue the development goes against planning policy and would have a detrimental impact on the town. A spokesperson for Enniskillen Business Partnership said the retail park would displace existing jobs rather than create new ones and "suck the lifeblood out of the existing town centre". They said the town was "on its knees" and pointed out there are currently 50 empty retail and business units in the town, 30% above the national average. Councillors on Fermanagh and Omagh District Council's planning committee unanimously decided to defer a decision, with one councillor urging the developers, planners and objectors to work together "to get the best outcome for the county town". The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.