He dismissed all grounds of challenge to the denial of street signs in English and Irish at Ballymurphy Drive. He rejected claims it was unreasonable to have a policy requiring a two-thirds majority of households to declare in favour of a second street name. He said it was particularly important in Northern Ireland to have convincing evidence in favour of change. "Unfortunately, in Northern Ireland's deeply divided society many on each side of the political and cultural divide, rightly or wrongly, see the other's language, whether it be Irish or Ulster Scots, as associating that community with a particular political point of view," the judge said. "In those circumstances it cannot be unreasonable to require clear and convincing evidence on the part of those who occupy the street that they want an additional street name plate in another language apart from English." Lawyers for Ballymurphy Drive resident Eileen Reid said the refusal was unlawful and in breach of an obligation to promote Irish. Out of 92 eligible residents on the street canvassed by Belfast City Council, 52 confirmed they wanted Irish signs, with only one opposed. But because the other 39 did not respond to the survey the two-thirds requirement was not met. According to Ms Reid's legal team, these non-returned votes were wrongly counted as being opposed to dual signs. The court heard how a city council policy drawn up in 1995 estimated it would cost around PS200,000 to provide second-language street plates over a five-year period. Another PS30,000 a year would be required for additional staff and resources around the administrative systems and procedures. Three years later the policy was implemented on the basis that it should be "reactive in nature". As part of the process the council retains an overriding discretion in deciding whether a street name plate should be erected. Between 1998 and 2013, 180 applications were made. Out of those 144 were approved and 34 were not progressed due to insufficient responses to council surveys. Belfast is one of 14 councils in Northern Ireland to have a dual language policy. The judge said he was not concerned with the merits of whether there should be an Irish sign at Ballymurphy Drive. He was only examining whether the council's process was lawful, he said. The "inaction" of Ms Reid's advisers "precluded the council from exercising its discretion" on the issue, the judge held. Rejecting all other arguments in the judicial review challenge, he described the contention that non-voters should not have been taken into account as "fundamentally flawed". He added: "Those who did not return their surveys can have been in no doubt as to the consequences of their inaction." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.