They are all caused by different viruses, but can have similar symptoms. Most people who feel ill with coronavirus So what do you need to know about other things you may catch in the coming months? A high temperature is 37.8C or above. A fever like this can happen when the body is fighting off any infection - not just coronavirus. It is best to use a thermometer to take a measure. But if you don't have one, check if you, or the person you are worried about, feels hot to the touch on the chest or back. Although fever is a key coronavirus symptom, it could be flu or a different infection. A high temperature is unlikely with a cold. If you have a fever, arrange a coronavirus test - you can use the If you have a cold or flu you may well have a cough, along with other symptoms. Flu usually comes on suddenly and sufferers will often experience muscle aches, chills, headaches, tiredness, a sore throat and a runny or stuffed nose, along with the cough. It feels worse than a heavy cold. Colds tend to develop more gradually and are less severe, although they do still make you feel unwell. Along with a cough, there may be sneezing and a sore throat and runny nose. Fever, chills, muscle aches and headaches are rare. A coronavirus cough means coughing a lot for more than an hour, or three or more coughing fits or "episodes" in 24 hours. If you usually have a cough because of a long-standing medical condition like COPD, it may be worse than usual. You should get tested for coronavirus if you develop a new, continuous cough. These are key symptoms of coronavirus and mean you should get a test. It could still be that you have a simple cold. But you need to check, even if you don't feel unwell, to avoid the risk of spreading the virus. Sneezing is not a symptom of coronavirus, and unless you also have a fever, cough or loss of smell and taste, you do not need a test. Sneeze droplets can spread infections though, so catch them in a tissue, put it in the bin and then wash your hands. Remember to help stop the spread of coronavirus and other illnesses: More people in England are being offered a this year too in the run-up to winter. A runny nose is says NHS Scotland. , reported by UK users, suggests children present less often with respiratory symptoms and are more likely to be suffering from fever, headaches, fatigue and skin rashes. People with coronavirus have a wide range of symptoms, ranging from mild to severe, although some will have none at all, but can still be infectious. Symptoms may appear up to two weeks after exposure to coronavirus, but usually Feeling breathless can be a sign of a more serious coronavirus infection. If you are having trouble breathing, contact your doctor online or over the phone, or the NHS 111 online coronavirus service. If you are very worried about sudden shortness of breath ring 999. And the NHS advises: The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.