The notice means the venue must close and remain shut until police are satisfied it can reopen safely. The notices were served to places in Banbridge, Irvinestown, Roslea, Tempo, Coleraine, Bangor and Moy. The health minister has said he wants to prioritise stronger legislation to deal with the issue. On Thursday, Robin Swann by some in the hospitality sector. Bars, restaurants and cafes reopened on 3 July. Bars with outside areas are able to serve alcohol on a table-service basis, while inside alcohol has to be served along with a meal, also on a table-service basis. Earlier this week it was announced that indoor pubs which only serve alcohol, theatres and private members' clubs There have been reports that pubs have been offering chips and cheeseboards so they can reopen. The prohibition notices cover from early July to 24 August. First Minister Arlene Foster has expressed her disappointment over the orders. "Disappointing to learn that five pubs had to be served prohibition notices in Fermanagh," she "Regulations are there for a reason. No one is above the rules. Important to adhere for the public health and safety of everyone." Hospitality Ulster chief executive Colin Neill said licensed premises which flout Covid-19 guidelines should be shut. However he added that the current government guidance was "too vague and lacks power". "Unfortunately the vast majority end up suffering because of these people," he said. "We have written to the health minister asking him to turn the guidance into legislation to make it enforceable and then come down heavily on anyone who breaches the regulations and puts people's lives at risk.". A prohibition notice requires a place to stop what enforcement officers consider to be unsafe activity - in this case, breaches of the Assistant Chief Constable Alan Todd said officers were engaging with licensees over their responsibilities under the coronavirus regulations. "Where we receive complaints, we will engage with licensees around potential breaches of both the Licensing (NI) Order 1996 and the Health Protection (Coronavirus Restrictions) Regulations NI 2020. "Where appropriate, advice and guidance will be provided to ensure the continued safe and peaceful enjoyment of services. "Our approach has always been engage, explain, encourage and enforcement with any emphasises on enforcement being fully considered with all our partners." Ex-PSNI Det Supt Alan Mains told the BBC the police in NI have "sufficient powers." He said police were on the frontline and were working alongside the health service to save lives. "They want to take the public and licensee with them," he said. "They don't want to criminalise anyone." "Those who step outside the guidelines are bringing the licence trade into disrepute," he added. On Thursday The video was taken during a wedding at the Montalto Estate in Ballynahinch, County Down. Covid-19 guidelines say there should be no communal dancing at weddings. In the Republic of Ireland the government has agreed to grant stronger powers to gardai (Irish police) to shut pubs not following public health regulations. Gardai have been inspecting thousands of pubs that are required to serve food and to maintain social distancing. Under current guidelines, pubs Ireland must serve a substantial meal costing not less than EUR9 to remain open. Meanwhile the latest weekly update from the Northern Ireland Statistical and Research Agency (Nisra) shows Covid-19 was mentioned on the death certificates of six people in Northern Ireland in the week to 21 August. Up to last Friday, that means . The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.