In the weeks leading up to the festive period, Wales had the highest infection rate of any UK nation with the country, at one point, featuring in nine of the top 10 highest UK Covid case rate areas. Now, under , the Welsh Government has taken it a step further by . Add to all that, people in have also been told to go back into lockdown. Ministers in Wales are to review restrictions ahead of an announcement on Friday but for the rest of January and current lockdown restrictions would be "strengthened". Schools were physically shut for the first two weeks of term - except for children of key workers and those deemed vulnerable - but this has now been extended until at least until the February half term unless case rates fall significantly in Wales. This means unless things change dramatically, online learning at home is set to continue for well over a month, until 22 February, at the earliest. The same applies for colleges. However, Mr Drakeford has said a "wholesale" return of pupils to school after February . Schools and colleges have remained open for children of critical workers, as well as vulnerable learners and anyone who needs to complete essential exams or assessments. The big concern for governments is the new and the schools' announcement comes after the UK's Joint Biosecurity Centre increased . Level five warns of a "material risk of healthcare services being overwhelmed", according to the . rules will last until at least mid-February while Scotland's decision will be reviewed at the end of January. The student experience has been very different for those studying in 2020 and 2021 so far, with campuses closed, lectures cancelled, and nights out banned for much of the year. A petition calling for the UK government to . Universities in Wales had already agreed a staggered start of the new term, but many students will now continue to learn online until cases fall. Cardiff University has confirmed in-person teaching will not restart as planned, and will be moved online until at least 22 February, with exemptions for medical students and practical based courses. Welsh university students studying in England should not return to campuses and will be taught online after a . Wales entered alert level 4 - or "stay at home lockdown" to you and me - from , the most similar level of restrictions to the first lockdown or the firebreak in the autumn. At the time, unlike during other lockdowns, schools and childcare could remain open. Well, that changed on Monday - although, as mentioned earlier, childcare and schools for children of key workers or vulnerable families could remain open. People are required to stay at home and only mix with their household or support bubble, while only leaving their home for "essential reasons". A support bubble can be formed by single adults or single parents joining another household. The rule on who you can mix with applies both indoors and outdoors. Travelling is only allowed for essential purposes, such as for work and for caring responsibilities. International travel is also not permitted. People are still allowed out of their homes to exercise, for unlimited times and periods each day Wales remains in level four, but must maintain social distancing, and not exercise with anyone outside their household, so either alone, with those they live with or with their bubble. Exercise should start and finish from your home, and the Welsh Government has urged people to avoid activities that involve a "significant degree of risk", such as water sports like wild swimming. All indoor and outdoor events are cancelled and visitor attractions are shut, non-essential shops have had to close along with gyms, hairdressers, hospitality businesses and holiday accommodation. Ministers are also looking at what else businesses need to do to protect employees in the workplace and support home-workers. Wedding ceremonies and funerals can still take place with limited numbers, but no receptions or wakes can be held. Wales' lockdown has no planned end-date and is . On 3 January, Mark Drakeford said it was "very hard to see where the room for manoeuvre is at the moment" with the NHS "under huge pressure". The next review of the national measures is not expected until 29 January. In the Welsh Government's most recent review on 8 January, the first minister said schools and colleges in Wales would remain closed until February half-term if cases unless there is a . All retailers classed as non-essential are closed again - so only supermarkets, pharmacies and those who sell items such as food and medication are allowed to remain open, but with strict social distancing measures in place. Supermarkets are not meant to sell anything deemed "non-essential" during the lockdown, while high street businesses selling similar items are closed, while alcohol sales after 22:00 GMT are banned. After the first minister said the pandemic had reached a "significant point", showrooms must now shut as well. It means any retailers which allow people to browse and then order for a future date - such as kitchens, bathrooms, furniture and car sales - must close. Click and collect will still be allowed. The Welsh Government is reviewing whether additional measures need to be placed on major supermarkets and retailers to protect customers and staff. For pubs, restaurants and cafes, the pandemic has been hard hitting. They are now closed again, apart from for takeaways. Well, it is improving slightly - but Wales' health minister warned the situation was still "very serious". Wales had more than 31,000 Covid cases in the two weeks over the Christmas period and the latest data showed there were almost 2,700 people with coronavirus symptoms in Welsh hospitals - with "more than half" of the 208 critical care patients having Covid. But Mr Gething said Wales' overall Covid incidence rate had fallen from a high of 636 cases per 100,000 people before the lockdown started to . The latest available data shows England's Covid case rate has risen above Wales for the first time in about a month. The quick answer is no - unless you're lucky enough to have a Pen y Fan, Snowdon or one of Wales' famous beaches within walking distance of your front door. over the festive period despite Wales' restrictions meaning all but essential travel should be avoided. Snowdonia National Park Authority has once again - as in the first lockdown - shut off all its car parks, . People from as were stopped by police for visiting north Wales over the Christmas holidays and while lockdown breach fines start at PS60, . Health minister Vaughan Gething said he is "deeply frustrated" by people who break the stay at home rules and said the Welsh Government would support police forces taking an "enforcement heavy approach" to rule-breakers. "They know they are doing the wrong thing but nevertheless they are doing it", said Mr Gething. "If the police take a more enforcement-heavy approach when people are plainly doing the wrong thing, and knowingly doing so, they will have the full support of Welsh government ministers in doing so". South Wales Police, for example, issued 500 fixed penalty notices in December and Chief Constable Jeremy Vaughan says he was "surprised that people say they don't understand the rules". "The basic core of the rules are to stay at home, don't mix and don't travel unless it's essential," said Mr Vaughan. "It's quite simple." You can still go. Attending appointments for "urgent medical issues" is "important ", according to the government - and you're also allowed to leave home to see your dentist, optometrist and other health support, like mental health services. The start of the rollout in Wales was in the fight against Covid-19. The Welsh Government said 40,000 doses would be available within the first two weeks. More than 35,000 people in Wales have already had a vaccine dose. The number of mass vaccination centres in Wales will be increased to 22 and more than 60 GP surgeries will offer the Oxford vaccine - mobile units will also be set up throughout Wales. But people have been warned not to visit vaccination centres, GP surgeries, hospitals, pharmacies, dentists or their optometrist if they have or are awaiting a Covid test result. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.