David Williams has revealed Hertfordshire County Council has commissioned consultants to look at options for "structural reform". The Conservative county councillor said a single authority could deliver "improved and more efficient services". Leaders of the 10 other councils have vowed to oppose the plans. Under the existing two-tier system, district and borough councils provide the county's 1.2m residents with services such as refuse collection and housing, while Hertfordshire County Council oversees services such as education, social care and highways. Mr Williams told a full county council meeting this system led to "cost, complexity and overlap". "We can deliver improved and more efficient services, joining up agendas, such as social care and housing, that at present require 10 different sets of relationships to be developed," he said. "We know that structural reform could also result in substantial savings for the public purse, placing Hertfordshire in a more secure situation in the face of an uncertain financial outlook." , also show splitting the county into two unitary authorities, could save up to PS105m per year. "We are just at the start of those considerations and look forward to working with all councils and partners in Hertfordshire to assess options to identify the best way forward," he said. Council leaders, from all political parties, have published a joint statement opposing any move towards a unitary authority. They said it would be "too large and remote to support local communities and residents" and also pointed out the poor timing of the proposal given the "need to ensure there is an absolute focus on supporting communities and businesses to recover from the devastating effects of Covid-19". Authorities such as Durham and have already established unitary councils, while Northamptonshire County Council is due to be in April 2021, although due to the coronavirus pandemic. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.