The National Audit Office (NAO) said taxpayers could lose as much as PS26bn, from fraud, organised crime or default. The lending scheme carried lighter checks than others and was aimed at small businesses unable to access other pandemic funding support. how fraudsters were using the loan system. Many of those affected will have no idea their names have been used until repayment letters begin arriving in early summer. One of the victims spoken to by the BBC, Mark Telling, said he was worried "to death" to discover a company set up in his name by a criminal had "borrowed" PS50,000 from the bail-out scheme. The BBC also spoke to Sue Burden, who had also found her identity had been stolen to set up a bogus company to access the scheme. She said she had gone "from tears to anger... now I'm going to be scared to do anything". The BBC reported last week that the scheme was at "very high risk of fraud" from "organised crime". The government said it has tried to minimise fraud through lenders' background checks. The scheme provides firms with 100% government-backed finance worth up to PS50,000. Demand has been greater than anticipated, and the total value of these loans is now expected to be PS38bn-PS48bn, up from an estimate of PS18bn-PS26bn. They do not have to be paid off for 10 years and offer a range of flexible payment options. The  loan scheme is an extension of earlier offers which some businesses complained they could not access as the lending criteria was too strict. The NAO report warned that the speed with which the scheme was rolled out heightened the fraud risk. It took a month to ensure businesses could not receive more than one loan. The Public Accounts Committee said it was the government's largest and most risky business support scheme. It says it will not assess the value-for-money of the scheme, as the loans will not start being paid back until May next year. The NAO analysis said losses from the scheme are likely to reach "significantly above" normal estimates for public-sector fraud of 0.5% to 5%. The report also said the UK's five biggest banks will make nearly PS1bn between them from the scheme. Meg Hillier, chair of the Public Accounts Committee, said the loans had been a vital lifeline for many businesses. But she added that "the government estimates that up to 60% of the loans could turn bad - this would be a truly eye-watering loss of public money". "The bounce back loan scheme got money into the hands of small businesses quickly, and will have stopped some from going under. "But the scheme's hasty launch means criminals may have helped themselves to billions of pounds at the taxpayer's expense. "Sadly, many firms won't be able to repay their loans and the banks will be quick to wash their hands of the problem. Today's report confirms what many people had suspected. In May, the government had to get money to small businesses as quickly as possible, before tens of thousands of them went bust. But to do that, they had to make compromises on credit and fraud checks.  This opened the doors to a whole range of problems - including fraud by organised criminal gangs. We've found evidence of more than 100 bogus firms set up by scammers to make fraudulent applications - getting the maximum PS50,000 each time. They've used the stolen, personal details of innocent victims to set up the fake companies - victims who won't know anything about it until the letters demanding repayment start arriving through their doors next summer. How it's done: The taxpayer is in the same position - waiting to find out how much the scheme will ultimately cost us.  The warning from the National Audit Office is clear - it has the potential to be "very high". Sue and Dave Burden, from the south of England, were shocked to find that Sue's identity had been stolen to set up a company and claim a bounce back loan. "I've gone from tears to anger," she told the BBC. "Now I'm going to be scared to do anything." The state-owned British Business Bank (BBB), which supervises the bounce back loan scheme, twice raised concerns, firstly in May. The BBB expects it will pay out PS1.07bn in interest payments to the high street lenders that provided the cash. Most of this will go to UK's five biggest banks, Barclays, HSBC, Lloyds, NatWest and Santander, which provided PS31.3bn of funding. , there have been 1.55 million applications for the loans, with 1.26 million approvals. "We targeted this support to help those who need it most as quickly as possible and we won't apologise for this," a government spokesperson said. "We've looked to minimise fraud - with lenders implementing a range of protections including anti-money laundering and customer checks, as well as transaction monitoring controls. "Any fraudulent applications can be criminally prosecuted for which penalties include imprisonment or a fine or both." Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the to submit your question or comment or you can email us at . Please include your name, age and location with any submission. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.