It means keeping a certain distance away from people who aren't in your household or bubble to lessen the risk of passing on - or catching - coronavirus. Each nation has slightly different guidance, although the rule everywhere is to stay at home except for very limited purposes. Social distancing is important because coronavirus spreads mainly when an infected person coughs, sneezes or speaks, and transmits small droplets - packed with the virus - into the air. These droplets can land in other people's mouths or noses nearby or may be inhaled into the lungs. You could also be infected after touching a surface on which the droplets have landed. The risks are far higher indoors than outdoors. Social distancing is a key element of The only people you do not need to socially distance from are: Otherwise, when seeing anybody else you must: Lockdowns are in force over most of the UK. In nobody can meet anyone from outside their household or support bubble indoors. People can exercise with one other person in an outdoor public place, such as a park, but cannot meet up with anyone else just to socialise. You should only leave your home once a day, and should not travel out of your local area. You are also only allowed to meet up outdoors to exercise with one other person in most areas in (the mainland and the isles of Skye, Bute, Arran and Gigha), which are currently under enhanced level four restrictions. Children under 12 do not count towards households or numbers when meeting outside in Scotland, and nor do they need to maintain physical distance from others. In you are currently not allowed to meet anyone outside your household or support bubble. People living in can meet outside in public places in groups of up to six people, from no more than two households (children count towards this total). Across the UK, there is additional advice for people who are clinically extremely vulnerable to coronavirus. They are advised to limit the time they spend outside their home, and only go out for medical appointments, exercise or if it is essential. They should not attend work, school, college or university. People . Covid rule-breakers are now , according to the Metropolitan Police commissioner Dame Cressida Dick. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.