Mr Icke has made several false claims about coronavirus, such as suggesting 5G mobile phone networks are linked to the spread of the virus. In one video, he suggested a Jewish group was behind the virus. Following the ban, his Twitter account posted: "Fascist Facebook deletes David Icke - the elite are TERRIFIED." Facebook said in a statement: "We have removed this Page for repeatedly violating our policies on harmful misinformation''. On Friday, campaign group the Center for Countering Digital Hate (CCDH) . The letter said Amazon, Facebook, Twitter and YouTube had amplified "Icke's racism and misinformation about Covid-19 to millions of people". It was co-signed by MP Damian Collins, as well as celebrity medics Dr Christian Jessen, Dr Dawn Harper and Dr Pixie McKenna. The CCDH said videos of Mr Icke making "untrue and conspiracist claims about Covid-19" had been watched more than 30 million times online. As examples, it cited: The letter was published after Facebook had removed Mr Icke's page. In April, YouTube removed an interview with Mr Icke in which he said there "is a link between 5G and this health crisis". When asked for his reaction to reports of 5G masts being set on fire in England and Northern Ireland, he responded: "If 5G continues and reaches where they want to take it, human life as we know it is over... so people have to make a decision." Facebook later removed the same video saying it broke its rules on misinformation. Later, the for an interview it aired with Mr Icke about coronavirus. David Icke has promoted several conspiracy theories on social media throughout the pandemic - and has consequently found himself in hot water with social media sites and broadcasting regulators. The health misinformation that he's been spreading, including linking 5G to coronavirus, has played a role in platforms like YouTube tightening their policies about conspiracy theories. This is a difficult area for social media sites to tackle. Medical myths and speculation that could cause harm are easier to act on, while conspiracy theories occupy a grey area where companies risk accusations of censorship if they take action. But the setting alight of mobile phone towers and abuse of telecommunications workers linked to this 5G coronavirus conspiracy has pushed sites like Twitter and TikTok to tighten their rules. Facebook has also recognised that the conspiracy theories repeatedly promoted by Icke fall into their bracket of harmful misinformation. This isn't the first time it has removed content from him - but the platform has gone one step further in taking down his page. Governments and social media sites alike grapple with the fine balance between stemming harmful narratives and allowing freedom of expression. But experts point out that they can do both with effective moderation and collaboration. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.