Jake Skuse, 36, Rhian Graham, 29, Milo Ponsford, 25, and Sage Willoughby, 21, appeared at Bristol Magistrates' Court earlier. They were bailed and are next due to appear at Bristol Crown Court on 8 February. Police arrested four people who ignored warnings not to gather outside the court. The bronze figure of the slave merchant was pulled down We'd like to thank all those who chose to join an online protest this morning rather than attend in person. More than 150 people joined a video call after organisers of a protest due to take place outside Bristol Mags' Court urged people to respect coronavirus regulations. Avon and Somerset Police had warned anyone who planned to attend a protest against the prosecutions they would be breaking coronavirus regulations. Protest organisers had asked people to instead attend a demonstration online, with about 150 people doing so. Police said "a small number of people" ignored their warnings and they arrested two men, aged 43 and 63, and two women, aged 59 and 60. Four other people were given formal warnings, the force added. After being pulled down during the June rally, the statue of Edward Colston was dumped in Bristol Harbour and recovered by Bristol City Council on 11 June. The council , along with placards from Black Lives Matter protests. In September, to property valued at less than PS5,000. Mr Skuse, of Farley Close; Bristol, Ms Graham, of Colston Road, Bristol; Mr Ponsford, of Bishopstoke, Hampshire; and Mr Willoughby, of Gloucester Road, Bristol, were charged with causing criminal damage in December 2020. Colston made his fortune in the slave trade and bequeathed his money to charities in Bristol, which led to many venues, streets and landmarks bearing his name. Following the toppling of the statue, Colston's Girls School to Montpelier High School. The city's Colston Hall music venue is . A statue of a Black Lives Matter protester was placed on the empty plinth without permission in July and was removed shortly afterwards. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.