North Wales Police were called to help some residents in Ruthin who were being told to leave their homes. They tweeted that "people who do not live locally are driving to the area to 'see the floods'". A issued by the Met Office is in place until midday on Thursday, with an ice warning for parts of north and mid Wales. South Wales fire crews pumped out water from homes in Pontypridd and Porth, in Rhondda, and roads were blocked in Powys and Flintshire. Vehicles were pulled from floods by firefighters in Tenby, Llandovery, Llandeilo and Whitland, Mid and West Wales fire service said. Up to 20cm (8in) of rain is expected to fall, with the heaviest rain forecast for the north west of Wales. There were flood warnings in as forecasters warned heavy rain and melting snow could affect roads. There were also 57 flood alerts - meaning flooding is possible. A yellow warning for ice was issued for the north and parts of mid Wales, starting at 01:00 on Thursday and lasting until 10:00, as rain clears. A minor landslip was reported on the mountainside above Pentre in Rhondda Cynon Taf. Natural Resources Wales, who have responsibility for the land, said there is no immediate threat after an initial inspection, but the council urged residents to keep away from the area. Flood warnings are in Carmarthenshire - the and isolated properties between Llandeilo and Abergwili, the at Pontyates and Ponthenry, the at Llanddowror and the at Trevaughan in Whitland. The other flood warnings cover the at Peterston-Super-Ely in Vale of Glamorgan, the in the Meifod area in  Powys, the at Riverside Terrace in Gwynedd, two for the at Glasbury and Builth Wells, the from Llangollen to Trevalyn Meadows, the at Pont ar Dyfi, the from Brecon to Glangrwyne, two at the at Abermule to Fron and Aberbechan and the at Clydach Bridge, Swansea. In at Aberaeron, in Ceredigion, the at Ammanford and Llandybie and the at Builth Wells, Powys, are also covered by the warning. A person had to be saved from a car stuck in floodwater in Corwen, Denbighshire, North East Wales Search and Rescue Rest centres have been opened in St Asaph and Ruthin after some localised flooding following heavy rainfall throughout the day. Denbighshire council invited affected residents to use the facilities at the towns' main leisure centres. And Mid and West Wales Fire and Rescue Service said crews were called to help a motorist whose vehicle had become stuck in 3ft of water in Machynlleth. In Broughton, Flintshire, Ray and Jacqui Littler said they and their daughter waited all afternoon for help at their flooded bungalow after emergency services told them they were "flat out". They eventually decided to leave their home on Main Road, which was under 10 inches of water, to stay with friends. Neighbours blamed a blocked culvert on the fields opposite the road. Police closed the road at about 16:00 GMT and Flintshire council attended, after three houses were affected, with the gardens of two pensioners' bungalows also under water. South Wales Fire and Rescue Service said it had been called to two incidents overnight with reports of water entering properties in Pontycymmer in Bridgend and Tredegar, Blaenau Gwent. On Wednesday morning, it dealt with flooding at properties in Tyfica Road, Pontypridd, and Trebanog Road in Porth, Rhondda, where a crew was helping residents divert and pump out water. Firefighters also had to rescue 46 sheep from land surrounded by water at Merthyr Road, Llanfoist, Monmouthshire. Crews from Abergavenny and Ebbw Vale were called to help the stricken animals near the River Usk.  'Ewe' may have 'herd' our fire engines attending an incident earlier today involving the rescue of 46 sheep from flood water near the River ,  and crews rescued them safely, so we thought we'd 'shear' this video with you!  In Rhondda Cynon Taf, there were also reports of flooding in properties at Pembroke Street, Aberdare and Clydach Vale, Tonypandy. A tweet from Pontypridd Plaid Cymru councillor Heledd Fychan showed fast-flowing water in the River Taff which runs through the town. River high and fast flowing in this morning. A number of flooding incidents across Wales.We need an independent inquiry into flooding so that we can invest in flood prevention and be better prepared for floods in the future.Rhaid cael ymchwiliad annibynnol i lifogydd. Judy Corbett, owner of 16th Century Gwydir Castle in Llanrwst, Conwy, which , told BBC Radio Wales things were "looking pretty dire here this morning". She said: "We've been obviously monitoring the levels overnight so we've had another sleepless night worrying about the weather but the levels are rising and the water is very violent this morning and of course, we've got another a whole day ahead of us." [?][?][?][?] The Met Office warned spray and flooding could lead to "difficult driving conditions and some road closures" and the downpours could cause delays. Traffic Wales said restrictions were in place on the M48 Severn Bridge where traffic is coming off eastbound at junction two or westbound at junction one before being directed back on to cross the bridge, which remains open. In Flintshire, the A548 Coast Road has been closed at Tan Lan and Mostyn, the A5118 at Padeswood, the A541 between Llong to Pontblyddyn, Bagillt High Street and the B5101 between Treuddyn and Llanfynydd. The A485 in Garreg is also closed from the Brondaw Arms to Pont Aberglaslyn. In Powys, the A487 over the Dyfi Bridge, near Machynlleth, is closed while the A458 at Llanfair Caereinion is blocked in both directions from Bridge Street to Guilsfield turn-off because of flooding. The A483 in Builth Wells at the station is also closed along with the bridge over the River Wye. Capel Bangor in Ceredigion has temporary traffic lights on the A44 at Lovesgrove Roundabout due to flooding, which is affecting traffic between Aberystwyth and Llangurig. In Bridgend, New Inn Road has been closed in both directions at The Dipping Bridge, affecting traffic between Ewenny village and the A48. South Wales Police warned people not to attempt driving through floodwater after the A4118 at Llanddewi on Gower became blocked. In Gwynedd, the council that Ffordd Siliwen, Bangor, had been closed following a landslip. A section of the A470 Dolgellau Bypass has also been closed along with the A4085 at Garreg. please be advised that the A4118 Llandewi to Portyeynon , Rhosilli  Gower is currently impassable due to flooding . Please do not attempt to drive through if you get stuck you will be putting unnecessary pressure on the emergency services. >60659 National Rail said some lines between North Llanrwst, Conwy, and Blaenau Ffestiniog in Gwynedd were blocked due to heavy rain while services were also disrupted between Shrewsbury and Machynlleth in Powys. Alterative road transport will run in place of cancelled services, it said. The Met Office said 56mm (2.2in) of rain had fallen at Capel Curig in Snowdonia by 18:00 GMT on Tuesday. Forecasters also said fast flowing and deep floodwater "could cause a danger to life". The Met Office warned flooding could lead to some communities being cut off and possible power cuts. Strong winds will also follow the torrential rain, with forecasters predicting this may cause "travelling difficulties across areas higher and more exposed routes". The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.