But what are the libel laws and how do they work? Libel is part of the law of defamation. It's a way of asking the courts to protect our reputation if we feel we have been wronged by something that has been published in permanent form. If the defamatory words have merely been said in public, that's known as slander. Mr Depp says that The Sun libelled him because it published an article that was defamatory. The article said he was a "wife beater" amid allegations about his relationship with his former wife, Amber Heard. He says that has caused enormous damage to his reputation - which ultimately will cause him losses in his career and life. Defamation court battles can be very expensive - but anyone who thinks they have been defamed can sue. Companies, like individuals, have reputations to defend - so they too can go to court. It doesn't matter that he lives in the US. The key fact in the case is that the alleged defamation was published in the UK, where he has a reputation too that he says has been seriously harmed. Absolutely. Anything that you publish openly on social media that is allegedly wrong and harmful to another person or company could end up being very expensive. One well-known current example of an online defamation case is the so-called "Wagatha Christie" row between two wives of top footballers. Rebekah Vardy (married to Leicester's Jamie Vardy) has recently commenced a libel action claiming Colleen Rooney (married to former England captain, Wayne Rooney) falsely accused her on Instagram of giving journalists stories about her private life. Defamation law is slightly different between England and Scotland but, in general terms, the onus is on the party who is accused of damaging someone's reputation to defend the words they used. In England, there are five ways that someone can see off the claim in court: If someone believes they have been defamed in England, they have to begin their case within a year of the publication. In Scotland it's three years - but with a twist. If the article or comment was published online, the three-year clock starts ticking from the last download. Critics say this means there's no deadline at all, and therefore the law is unfair to journalists. In four ways: The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.