The Orfordness Lighthouse is being taken down because the sea is gradually eating up the land on which it sits. Work on the Grade II-listed structure on the Suffolk coast . As it began, owner Nicholas Gold, who bought the structure in 2013, said he felt "highly emotional" as it had taken "a big chunk of my life". The current Orfordness Lighthouse is the 11th - and final - warning beacon stationed on Europe's longest shingle spit. Established 228 years ago, it was never designed to be in the sea because saltwater would erode its lime mortar. In the early-1980s, its base was 90m (295ft) from the sea. Then, in the winter of 2013-14, four metres (13ft) of beach was lost in a single storm. Following 2018's "Beast from the East" storms, the sea is now just a few metres from the red and white structure. Preparations for the deconstruction of Orfordness lighthouse, a beacon on Suffolk's coast for more than 200 years, are under way.

Here's the very last walk up to the latern room in 360 degrees - just move your mouse if on a desktop or laptop, or your device if on a mobile/tablet to look around.  Read full story: bbc.in/39dZxUg

Orfordness NT, due to Covid-19 restrictions, is not open to the public. The Orfordness Lighthouse Trust filled rubble sacks with shingle and bound them together to fashion a flexible wall to protect it from erosion, and this has kept the building standing for longer than expected. But longer-term defences are not allowed because it sits on Orford Ness - the largest vegetated shingle spit in Europe at a length of about 10 miles - which is a Site of Special Scientific Interest. Volunteers are now dismantling the building while there is enough shingle beach left for a crane to come and lift its cap and 14-tonne lantern room. The trust hopes parts of the lighthouse can be used in a permanent memorial on the other side of the Ness, facing Orford town's quay. The is currently closed to the public. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.