Online learning will continue at the beginning of term and schools will provide face-to-face learning for the majority of their pupils by 11 January. A full return to the classroom is expected by 18 January at the latest. The WLGA said minimising disruption was a priority, but teachers' union NASUWT criticised the short notice given. General secretary Patrick Roach said: "Yet again ministers are announcing significant changes affecting schools with little or no time to prepare before the Christmas closure period. "This decision demonstrates that Covid-19 transmission in schools is a major factor in continuing the spread of the virus." He added more action was needed to keep pupils, staff and their families safe. Laura Doel from the NAHT union added: "Yet again schools are expected to pick up the pieces of a last-minute announcement on school reopening. "The result... will be an inconsistent picture across Wales that lacks clarity and leaves headteachers to have to deal with the fallout from parents who are justifiably angry about the uncertainty." Meanwhile, First Minister Mark Drakeford predicted other parts of the UK may need to follow Wales' lead in . Speaking to the BBC's Newscast podcast, he said: "As soon as you begin to lessen restrictions this virus finds a way to begin circulating again," adding other parts of the UK "will find themselves with numbers escalating and more action needing to be taken". "The advice from SAGE has always been that the earlier you act and the more sharply you act the better the impact will be," he added. The news about the staggered return of pupils comes after a was announced, so contacts of people who have tested positive can continue going to school if they test negative daily for the duration of their 10-day isolation period. Secondary schools , and primary schools subsequently chose to follow suit. Arrangements will be made for vulnerable learners and the children of critical workers. A WLGA spokesman said: "The plan to return to schools in January will give some certainty, whilst also allowing for flexibility to take account of local circumstances. "Teachers, school staff, learners, and parents and carers' response has been remarkable throughout this challenging year. "It has not been easy, and we thank them for their continued patience and perseverance to help keep our communities safe." The Welsh Government said the flexible approach would enable schools to make safety arrangements for their own circumstances. "We know from our children and young people that they learn best when in the classroom receiving face-to-face learning, so any measures we put in place must look to minimise further disruption to their education," it added. The WLGA said some councils had opted for inset days on 4 and 5 January. Powys council confirmed this was the case in its area, with all pupils returning on 6 January, meanwhile Cardiff and Ceredigion said in emails to parents they expected all pupils back by 11 January. Cardiff council leader Huw Thomas said: "What we've seen in recent weeks in all parts of Wales really is increasing numbers of pupils and staff being asked to self isolate and... that is having a real impact on the viability of actually being able to open schools. "So I think what's being proposed here... recognises the reality." If anyone, anywhere has any thought that schools are safe tell that to my staff who are so ill at the moment and caught it IN SCHOOL. It's time  started thinking of the school staff as well as the pupils.  One head teacher tweeted: "If anyone, anywhere has any thought that schools are safe tell that to my staff who are so ill at the moment and caught it IN SCHOOL." Chris Britten, head of Ysgol y Deri, added it was time the Welsh Government "started thinking of the school staff as well as the pupils". But Sally Holland, children's commissioner for Wales, said she was not able to support further delays to in-school learning, except for individual schools in exceptional circumstances. "Children and young people have told me that online learning, however well planned, is no substitute for being in the classroom. "It clearly places already disadvantaged groups at a further disadvantage." It follows a , where secondary schools will have a staggered return after the break. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.