They aim to put Austria on a path to becoming climate-neutral by 2040 - ten years earlier than the EU's goal. Climate neutrality means balancing greenhouse gas emissions with measures that absorb or eliminate carbon. The conservatives won a snap September election, and the Greens made gains. Mr Kurz said the joint programme also included many of his People's Party (OVP) priorities, like lower income taxes and stricter controls on migration. The OVP had been in coalition with the far-right Freedom Party (FPO) until a scandal toppled the government in May. The FPO got entangled in a video sting scandal, dubbed "Ibiza-gate", involving cash for favours. The Green Party is entering national government for the first time. The new coalition line-up still has to be formally approved by both parties. Under the plan, the OVP will have 11 ministerial posts and the Greens four. "We succeeded in uniting the best of both worlds," Mr Kurz said. "It is possible to protect the climate and borders." Greens leader Werner Kogler said Austria should now become a European leader on climate change issues. Mr Kurz is poised to return as Austria's chancellor, with Mr Kogler as vice-chancellor. Among the prospective Green ministers is 35-year-old Alma Zadic, a lawyer born in Bosnia, who is set to run the justice ministry. She is likely to push for a more open immigration policy. After elections in 2017, . But the government fell apart in May over the "Ibiza-gate" scandal. Journalists revealed secret recordings of FPO leader Heinz-Christian Strache, promising government contracts to a woman posing as the niece of a Russian oligarch at a villa on the Spanish island. Snap elections followed in September. The OVP came out unscathed, winning in eight of Austria's nine federal states and increasing its share of the national vote to 37%. The FPO, in contrast, only won 16%, a sharp fall from its 2017 performance. Mr Kurz's party however did not gain a majority and began coalition talks with smaller parties - including the Greens, who had won 14% of the vote. Green leader Mr Kogler said straight after the September election that the next government would need to see "radical change" from the right-wing policies pursued by the previous coalition. A Green party congress must still endorse the coalition with the People's Party. Its roughly 280 delegates are however expected to approve the agreement. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.