The Union Chain Bridge between Scotland and England - which is almost 200 years old - has received PS3.14m from the National Lottery Heritage Fund (NLHF). It will allow a major programme of repairs to begin next year on the structure over the River Tweed. Councils on either side of the border have also committed more than PS3m towards the scheme. In addition to the repairs, a programme of activities is also planned to celebrate and explore the bridge's historical and engineering importance in order to boost tourism. It is credited with being a "catalyst for innovation" in bridge design around the world. The funding success is being marked by a visit to the bridge by the Duke of Gloucester. The bid was put together by Northumberland County Council (NCC), Scottish Borders Council (SBC), Museums Northumberland and community group Friends of the Union Chain Bridge, following serious concerns about the condition of the famous structure. The bridge crosses the River Tweed from Fishwick in Berwickshire to Horncliffe in Northumberland. It was completed in 1820 and was the longest suspension bridge in the world at the time. It is now understood to be the oldest operational suspension bridge in the world still carrying vehicles. The Union Chain Bridge was built by retired naval captain Samuel Brown and completed in 1820. It cost about PS7,700 to construct and replaced a "perilous ford" slightly downstream. Although work on Thomas Telford's Menai Bridge started before it, it was the Union Bridge which was completed first, making it the longest iron suspension bridge in the world when it opened. Hundreds of spectators - including civil engineers Robert Stevenson and John Rennie - turned out to see it open on 26 July. Until the 1970s it existed with little maintenance but the entire deck was replaced in 1974. Without "major attention" since then, the cost of refurbishment eventually ran into millions of pounds but should now be able to go ahead. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.