It is facing a shortfall of more than PS100m due to the lockdown, with a large reduction in passenger numbers. NI's councils will also get emergency Covid-19 funding of PS20.3m from the executive. Local government officials have said , losing PS10.5m a month in income. While the 11 councils are carrying out essential work, leisure and tourism operations have been put on hold. On Tuesday, Communities Minister Deirdre Hargey said the executive had agreed to an "immediate intervention" to help councils avoid a cash crisis. The funding will go to councils to help them address cost pressures between now and the end of June, she added. Finance Minister Conor Murphy also confirmed he has allocated PS30m to the Department for Infrastructure to help Translink with its loss of income. Ms Hargey said the council fund would "provide relief to local councils to protect the delivery of services and ensure councils are ready to play their role". There have been concerns raised that some councils could soon become insolvent if they do not get funding support. The minister said the emergency funding would not be dispersed equally among the 11 councils. "It will be tailored to the needs of each council, and my department will be working with those councils over the next few days," she added. During the coronavirus pandemic, Translink has still been running a timetable for bus and rail services, with free public transport provided for NHS workers. Mr Murphy said the new funding would "build on" PS20m allocated to Translink in his department's budget for 2020/21. The money comes from a PS95m fund set aside by the Department of Finance specifically for transport in NI. In 2015/16, funding provided to Translink by Stormont was cut and its budget has struggled to recover. In February this year, before the onset of the pandemic, about the future of Translink if it did not receive substantial additional funding. Ms Hargey also told the assembly she understood a number of councils in Northern Ireland are still in the process of furloughing some staff. Last week, Antrim and Newtownabbey Council on the Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme. The scheme allows employers to temporarily lay off staff while the government pays 80% of their wages during the crisis, and . Mid Ulster District Council is already using the scheme for almost 40% of its workforce. Suzanne Wylie, Belfast City Council's chief executive, has said all 11 councils will have to furlough at least some of their staff. Senior Sinn Fein and Ulster Unionist politicians have said of their workforce as possible. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.