Conservative Senedd leader Paul Davies and Darren Millar were seen drinking together in early December. Senedd authorities said they were investigating an "incident" which "may have been contrary to public health regulations". Labour Alun Davies was also involved. He and two Tories deny breaking rules. "A member has been suspended from the privileges of Senedd Labour Group membership while an investigation takes place into this alleged incident," a spokesman for the group said. came into force in Wales at 18:00 GMT on 4 December, although hospitality businesses can sell alcohol to take away after 18:00. On 8 December, a group of Members of the Senedd and staff drank alcohol in the Ty Hywel building in Cardiff Bay that houses the Senedd's offices. Catering company, Charlton House, has the licence for serving alcohol on Senedd premises. The Welsh Government confirmed the alcohol ban applies to the person running the licensed premises, rather than customers. Charlton House said it was "aware of an alleged breach of public health regulations at the Senedd estate" and took its "responsibilities and obligations to restrictions and public health regulations across the UK very seriously". "We are currently undertaking a full investigation into this matter," the firm added. Plaid Cymru Senedd member Helen Mary Jones said Labour had "taken the right step in terms of suspending their member while they investigate, and I think the Conservatives have got to do the same thing". "We've been passing legislation in the Senedd this last nine months, expecting really difficult things from our constituents, in terms of restricting their social contact, things that make people very unhappy because we have to," she said. "Whether or not the letter of the regulations has been broken, in my view the spirit clearly has." Wales' chief medical officer Dr Frank Atherton said it was "important that everybody follows the rules". "I don't know the details of what may or may not have happened down there, I'm sure that will come out in the fullness of time," he told . A statement on behalf of Paul Davies, Darren Millar and Welsh Conservative chief of staff Paul Smith, who was also at the meeting, said they were "profoundly sorry". "While we did not break the rules, we recognise that what was part of a day's work would not be seen to be following the spirit of them, especially given the tough time the country has been going through," the statement said. In his statement, Labour's Alun Davies said: "I am very sorry if my actions have given the impression that I am in any way not committed to upholding the regulations which I have consistently supported throughout the last year." He said the purpose of the meeting "was to seek to persuade the Welsh Conservatives to support my proposal for a Welsh Hearts Bill, which the Senedd endorsed on 21 October, and to make a commitment to enact this life-saving legislation in their manifesto for May's election". Alun Davies added: "The Senedd Commission has already confirmed to me that I did not breach the coronavirus regulations on the consumption of either food or alcohol that were in force at that time." A spokesman for the Senedd Commission said: "We are aware of an incident on the Senedd estate last month which may have been contrary to public health regulations in force at the time. "The Senedd Commission takes the public health regulations in Wales very seriously and is currently investigating the matter in order to establish an accurate account of what took place and to determine whether action may be required." In a statement, Monmouth Conservative MS Nick Ramsay has denied being a part of the "gathering". The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.