The former Tory cabinet minister said it was impossible to ask unpaid campaign volunteers to work for another 12 months. The independent candidate said it had been an "agonising decision" for him to make. The announcement comes on the eve of what would have been polling day. It is with sadness that I have decided not to run in the postponed London Mayoral election next year. Thank you to all who supported me, engaged with the campaign and shared my vision of all London can achieve. In a statement Mr Stewart said: "I firmly believe London is the greatest city on earth - and its courageous response to Covid-19 proves that more than ever. "It would have been the honour of my life to serve the city as mayor, but while the considerable challenges of running as an independent were manageable for a normal race they are forbidding for an extended and delayed election." In March that the mayoral election would be delayed until May next year as the country prepared to go into lockdown. After serving as International Development Secretary under Theresa May, Mr Stewart campaigned to succeed her in the Conservative leadership election last summer. But after Boris Johnson became prime minister, Mr Stewart was one of 21 Conservative MPs The former MP for Penrith and The Border to run as an independent candidate. Mr Stewart, 47, gained national attention through a series of campaigns that offered face-to-face debates with Londoners. A cornerstone of his election effort were his daily walks across London were he would film interviews and discussions with Londoners he met. His Come Kip With Me initiative, asking to stay a night in Londoner's homes to understand their problems, attracted national publicity. In an interview with the Evening Standard Mr Stewart said he planned to write a book about politics and hoped to stay in public life. He said would not re-join the Tory party and declined to endorse any other candidate for mayor. Mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, said he "wished Rory Stewart the best of luck whatever he chooses to do". He added: "It's quite clear he loves London and I'm sure we've not seen the last of him." Shaun Bailey, the Conservative candidate, said: "Like me, he believes London needs new leadership. "Rory brought some interesting ideas to the table and his unique campaigning style was a real breath of fresh air. "I wish him all the best for the next chapter." Liberal Democrat candidate Siobhan Benita said: "I wish Rory Stewart all the best with his future plans. "As a former independent candidate myself, I know how tough it is to sustain a campaign alone.   "Rory and I didn't always agree on policy but we do share many frustrations and ideas about our wonderful city." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.