Mr Hogan said he acknowledged his presence at the golf event had "touched a nerve" with Irish people. The Irish government has agreed to recall the Dail (Irish parliament) early amid the at the Galway gathering. It was due to return on 15 September. It has also emerged that the commissioner was stopped by gardai (Irish police) for using his mobile phone while driving in County Kildare on 17 August. The except in exceptional circumstances. A spokesperson for Mr Hogan told the Irish national broadcaster RTE that the incident happened while he was en route from Kilkenny to Kildare to collect "personal belongings and essential documents" at his apartment there before driving on to Galway for the golf event. The spokesperson said: "The lockdown guidelines for Kildare provide for exceptional travel outside the county 'to travel to work and home again'." Mr Hogan will not be resigning from his position, his spokesperson also told RTE News. As EU trade commissioner, Mr Hogan, a former Irish government minister, would lead free trade negotiations with the UK if and when they commence after Brexit. Taoiseach (Irish PM) Micheal Martin will make the request for the Dail to be recalled to the Ceann Comhairle (Speaker) on Monday. The coalition government has agreed the Dail should be recalled following the reopening of schools. Opposition politicians had called for the recall in the wake of the dinner controversy that has already Irish police are investigating if the Oireachtas golf society dinner breached Covid-19 regulations. The event came a day after . In a statement on Sunday, Mr Hogan said he particularly wanted to "apologise to the wonderful healthcare workers, who continue to put their lives on the line to combat Covid-19 and all people who have lost loved ones during this pandemic". 1) I wish to apologise fully and unreservedly for attending the Oireachtas golf society dinner on Wednesday night last. "I acknowledge my actions have touched a nerve for the people of Ireland, something for which I am profoundly sorry," he said. "I realise fully the unnecessary stress, risk and offense caused to the people of Ireland by my attendance at such an event, at such a difficult time for all, and I am extremely sorry for this," he added. He said he had spoken to the taoiseach and Tanaiste (deputy PM) Leo Varadkar yesterday and had been reporting to the President of the European Commission. Mr Hogan has reportedly come under pressure The Sunday Independent has reported that Mr Martin and Mr Varadkar want the EU trade commissioner to consider his position. Mr Varadkar told RTE News on Sunday that he welcomed Mr Hogan's apology but that further explanation was required. The return date for the Dail has not yet been confirmed, but is expected to be early next month. The decision to recall the Dail was taken by Mr Martin, Mr Varadkar, and Minister Eamon Ryan, the leader of the Green Party. Speaking on RTE News on Friday, Sinn Fein leader Mary Lou McDonald called for the return of the Dail, and said the event . Calls for its return were also made by Labour leader Alan Kelly, and co-leader of the Social Democrats, Catherine Murphy. As well as Agriculture Minister Dara Calleary, Jerry Buttimer, who was the leas-chathaoirleach (deputy chairman of the Irish senate), also stepped down from his roles after attending the event. The president of the Oireachtas Golf Society has apologised "unreservedly" for the hurt caused by the dinner. Others present at the event included Supreme Court judge Seamus Woulfe and independent TD (MP) Noel Grealish. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.