Doris Hobday and her twin sister Lilian Cox, known as the Tipton Twins, were admitted to hospital after testing positive earlier this month. Her family said Mrs Hobday had died on 5 January, adding they were "totally heartbroken to lose Doris in this way". Mrs Cox has since been discharged from hospital and is continuing to recover, the family said. The siblings were among the UK's oldest living twins. "We are so grateful for all the special memories we have created and got to share with you all," the family said in a statement. The twins, from Tipton, West Midlands, became popular figures online with their positive outlook on life and sense of humour. They appeared on BBC Breakfast, ITV's Good Morning Britain and This Morning, charming presenters with jokes about wearing their drawers inside out and their love for actor Jason Statham. Sad to hear the news about the death of Doris Hobday. She & identical twin, Lil, were brilliant guests on BBC Breakfast last year - so full of life at 96. They both had coronavirus... Lil is now recovering at home. My thoughts are with her & the rest of the family. RIP Doris Hobday, 96. One of Britain's two oldest twins & a delightful lady. She died from coronavirus. Her sister Lil got covid too but survived and is now home from hospital. My deepest condolences to her on the loss of her beloved sister.  Lilian and Doris said they did everything together. They lived in the same street after getting married, worked together at an ale-making factory in Birmingham and more recently lived next to one another at sheltered accommodation in Tipton. Speaking to the BBC on their 95th birthday, Lilian revealed her sister's secret to a long life was "no sex and plenty of Guinness" - her own being simply "lemonade". "Doris will be laid to rest with her husband who she lost 11 years ago after 65 years of happy marriage," her family said. A crowdfunding page has been set up in Mrs Hobday's memory, with funds raised being donated to The Beacon Centre for the Blind, which supported her late husband Raymond for 20 years. The family said Mrs Cox had only been told of her sister's death on Monday, "once she was strong enough to take the news". "She is now being comforted by family and staying with her daughter Vivien while she fully regains her strength." "Both were determined to live until 100, they had so much to look forward to," their family said. "It's just so cruel that Covid has stopped Doris like this." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.