Two teenagers have a cathartic encounter with men jailed for an Islamist attack that killed their mum. Two teenagers have a cathartic encounter with men jailed for an Islamist attack that killed their mum. Do you find it hard to speak to people when you feel passionately that they are wrong? A ground-breaking experiment matches people up with someone they disagree with. A block of flats in Sweden is tackling loneliness by mixing age groups - and making socialising an obligation. Over 200 people listen to others with strongly opposing views, as part of the Crossing Divides season. Can drag shows bring people together despite nationalist feelings? LGBT activists from Kosovo and Serbia believe they can. A Tutsi on the verge of being killed by Hutu extremists in 1994 recalls how his life was saved as those who had come to kill him realised he played for one of Rwanda's top clubs. More young people are turning to social media to explore their faith. Two teenagers have a cathartic encounter with men jailed for an Islamist attack that killed their mum. Do you find it hard to speak to people when you feel passionately that they are wrong? A ground-breaking experiment matches people up with someone they disagree with. A block of flats in Sweden is tackling loneliness by mixing age groups - and making socialising an obligation. Over 200 people listen to others with strongly opposing views, as part of the Crossing Divides season. Can drag shows bring people together despite nationalist feelings? LGBT activists from Kosovo and Serbia believe they can. A Tutsi on the verge of being killed by Hutu extremists in 1994 recalls how his life was saved as those who had come to kill him realised he played for one of Rwanda's top clubs. More young people are turning to social media to explore their faith. Do you find it hard to speak to people when you feel passionately that they are wrong? A ground-breaking experiment matches people up with someone they disagree with. A block of flats in Sweden is tackling loneliness by mixing age groups - and making socialising an obligation. Over 200 people listen to others with strongly opposing views, as part of the Crossing Divides season. Do you find it hard to speak to people when you feel passionately that they are wrong?
A groundbreaking experiment matches people up with someone they disagreed with. By Rebecca Henschke and Endang Nurdin BBC World Service Once part of the group behind the Bali bombing, now Ali Fauzi is on a mission to end terror. Political discussion on social media can often be painfully divisive. We brought together an angry troll who posts bigoted comments - and one of the people he abuses. By Emily Kasriel BBC News Advice to make more meaningful connections by phone or Zoom while you're stuck in self-isolation. When Tran Thi Ngai was raped, she did not get justice, or even sympathy. Instead she ended up in prison. . The
audience of 50 are currently in training sessions, learning deep listening
techniques. At
11:20 GMT they'll be paired up with someone who they disagree with on a key issue. In advance, they were asked the following questions: Mark Easton Home editor All
countries have their divisions and Britain is no exception. We
are not all the same.  We don't all think the same. And that can be
healthy.  Our democracy thrives on argument and debate. But
when those divisions result in behaviours and activities which cause anxiety
and distress, when they diminish people's quality of life, when they threaten
the peace and order of a society - then those divides become unhealthy. Politicians
and community leaders talk of the need to heal Britain after the Brexit
referendum, reflecting concerns that the deeply held divisions exposed in that
debate threaten to spill over into behaviour which reduces social cohesion -
the glue that holds our society together. Human
beings are hard-wired to respond to threat by fight or flight.  It is
uncomfortable for us to listen to opinions which challenge our own and we tend
either to attack or withdraw.  Respectful disagreement can feel unnatural. Today's
listening exercise is an example of an approach called 'meaningful
interaction', where individuals with different backgrounds and views come
together to consider those differences.  What tends to happen is that when
people mix in that way they recognise their shared humanity and their hostility
softens.  They discover they can respectfully disagree. The
question, however, is how we might take that idea from an individual level to a
societal level.  Can we take the benefits of deep listening and scale them
up in a way that brings whole communities and countries together? An echo chamber is an environment
in which somebody encounters only opinions and beliefs similar to their own,
and does not have to consider alternatives. For #CrossingDividesLive, we've got our
own 'Empathy Echo Chamber' designed by Enni-Kukka Tuomala, which two of the audience, Trevor and Saima are currently experiencing! The echo chamber is an inflatable with a mirrored interior. People enter in pairs. Together they complete a short empathy experiment, sitting down together and drawing each other's portraits. What's the idea? Drawing each other means really looking at each other. In our daily lives we rarely take time to see the people in our lives in detail, let alone to look at the strangers that we encounter. . Who is influencing you online? And do you
realise when it's happening? One of the areas will explore is our digital
identity. Click here to read more: The audience of 50 has arrived - they're having training this morning and in a few hours they be paired up with someone who disagrees with them on a key topic for a 20 minute conversation. Do you find it hard to speak to people when you feel passionately that they are wrong? Today's Crossing Divides Live audience will be taking part in special training sessions to learn a technique called 'deep listening'. It is an approach to difficult conversations that ensures both parties feel fully heard. Click here to read more: Good morning and welcome to Crossing Divides Live from BBC News and BBC Radio 5 Live. At a time when it's increasingly
hard to find common ground we are bringing together 50 people who disagree and might
never normally meet to discuss the big issues, such as climate change, class, immigration and Brexit... In a groundbreaking experiment, we'll be matching people up with someone who has differing views to them for a 20 minute conversation. It's a full day of debate and programmes on BBC radio, TV and
online, plus we'll give you the tools to break out of your bubble and really hear the
other point of view. Listen on BBC Sounds. Have your say: / By Emily Kasriel Editor, BBC Crossing Divides How deep listening without interruption or judgement can help us find common ground and feel valued. An initiative in the state of Rio de Janeiro aims to improve the lives of those behind bars. Email us at Send an SMS or MMS to Follow