First Minister Mark Drakeford said PS23m would be spent ensuring that provision already pledged to Easter 2021 would continue until Easter 2022. He said it would "support families most in need and provides some reassurance in these times of uncertainty". Footballer Marcus Rashford, who has campaigned on the issue in England, welcomed the news as "a great move". "When this cruel, fast moving pandemic hit Wales, we led the way in becoming the first UK nation to fully fund free school meals throughout the holidays," . "In October we went further, guaranteeing that support right up to the Easter holidays of next year because this was the right thing to do. A great move, congrats  "And, as Marcus Rashford has so passionately demonstrated, the free school meal issue is not just about hunger.  It is about saying to those children, 'you matter, you matter to us we want you to have the every best'." The first minister continued: "This isn't simply about food - it's about saying to those children that you are part of the society we share and we want to invest in your future. "Our test now is to deliver that support in the middle of this crisis." Support will be provided by local authorities in the form of vouchers, direct payments or delivery of pre-prepared meals or lunch bags. The executive made a pledge in November to provide free school meals in holidays until Easter 2022. In England, after a million people signed a petition led by Rashford, the UK government announced a PS170m winter grant to help support families in need from early December. It also said up to PS220m would be available to help local authorities across England set up providing food and activities for children eligible for free school meals, covering the Easter, summer and Christmas holidays in 2021. Meanwhile - where holiday provision is currently promised up to Easter 2021 - both the SNP and the Scottish Conservatives have pledged to fund free school meals for all primary school pupils during term-time and holidays if they win the 2021 Scottish election. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.