The new stadium has a proposed capacity of 34,186 - down by almost 4,000 on the GAA's original plan. It is the latest planning application after the multi-million pound project was . A residents' group had and said the lower capacity was "not a significant reduction". Ulster GAA said the planning application came after an "unprecedented" 32-week consultation. Planning permission for the sports stadium was after objections by local residents. The GAA last October. It said height, scale and capacity were all reduced from the previous design and that it was aiming to work within the original budget of PS76m. In confirming the latest planning application, Ulster GAA said it had received 95% approval from about 3,000 people who responded to the stadium consultation. It said it had also received a positive report from the Safety Technical Group (STG), an advisory body which oversees the construction of new stadiums in Northern Ireland. This report has not been made public, despite requests by the BBC to see the document. The original plans for the stadium were embroiled in controversy when Paul Scott, then head of the STG, after he raised concerns that the stadium could not be evacuated safely in emergencies. Mr Scott has since been by former Omagh District Council chief executive Danny McSorley. Ulster GAA said that the STG found that the plans were "sufficiently developed, and in accordance with safety legislation and guidance, at this stage to provide a sound basis for development towards the GAA's target capacity of 34,186". Tom Daly, chairman of the Casement Park Project Board, said the GAA had "listened, learned and acted" in submitting the new plans. "We are delighted with the overwhelming support the project has received with 95% of people that responded being in favour of the scheme and also with the positive endorsement we received from the Safety Technical Group," he said. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.