The consultation is open for 16 weeks and seeks the views of the public on proposed changes to laws regulating the sale and supply of alcohol in NI. Issues for consultation include late opening hours and further restrictions on mixed trading in supermarkets. Changes to the law affecting private members clubs will also be considered. Mr McCausland said the would also take in the alignment of alcohol and entertainment licences, formal approval of codes of practice on responsible retailing and changes to the law affecting private members clubs. "Undertaking a further review of licensing legislation at this time provides an opportunity for my department to introduce extra measures to help address some of the concerns surrounding alcohol misuse in Northern Ireland," he said. "It also enables me to respond to concerns surrounding irresponsible alcohol consumption, including the availability of alcohol and changes in drinking patterns. "While tackling irresponsible drinking, I also feel it is important to recognise the contribution made to the local economy by the licensed trade, which has changed in recent years and makes a significant contribution to our tourism offering, as well as providing much needed employment." The public consultation was welcomed by Colin Neill of Pubs of Ulster, the bar owners' representative body. Mr Neill said he hoped the move "marks the start of positive change for the industry". "Pubs of Ulster has been at the forefront of calls for reform of the current licensing laws and has lobbied on a range of issues over the last number of years," he said. "We are therefore greatly encouraged that many of the issues Pubs of Ulster has campaigned for, such as changes to opening hours over Easter and extending drinking-up time from 30 minutes to one hour, have been included in the consultation. "As recognised by the minister, the licensed trade makes a significant contribution to the local economy and plays a vital role in communities throughout Northern Ireland." Mr Neill said the consultation "offered the opportunity to modernise the current licensing laws and bring Northern Ireland's night-time economy into the 21st century". "Pubs of Ulster calls on all of those with an interest in the future of the industry, from publicans, business owners and customers, to take the opportunity to shape and improve the industry by responding to the consultation before it closes on 12 November 2012," he said. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.