First , it emerged that more than 80 people had attended an Irish parliamentary golf society event in Clifden, County Galway. Included on the guest list were a host of high-profile figures from Irish political life. But the event came just one day after . Gardai (Irish police) are investigating the event for possible breaches of the regulations. A week later, three politicians, including a government minister and EU trade commissioner Phil Hogan, have resigned their posts. Mr Hogan - who would have been leading the EU's post-Brexit free trade negotiations with the UK - had been facing calls to quit for days before Now, in the wake of #GolfGate, as it has become known, the Dail (Irish parliament) will So what exactly is going on? And how did one gathering cause this much disruption? The Oireachtas [Irish parliament] Golf Society's dinner, which took place on 19 August at the Station House Hotel in Clifden, was attended by a host of senior politicians and notable public figures. The timing of the event has been of particular interest. It took place the day after the Irish government changed its guidelines in the face of With the tightening of restrictions, the number of people allowed to attend indoor gatherings was reduced from 50 to six, with some exceptions. That will be a matter for An Garda Siochana (Irish police) to decide. It has launched an investigation. James Sweeney, from the Station House Hotel where the event was held, told Irish broadcaster RTE he had checked with the Irish Hotels Federation to ensure the event complied with regulations. He said he was told it would be, if the guests were in two separate rooms, with fewer than 50 people in each. Under the previous rules, up to 50 people had been able to gather for an indoor event. In addition to this, there is also an issue about how many were seated to a table. Under the old rules, a maximum number of six people were allowed to sit at a table. The Irish Examiner reported that the table plan listed . A number of Irish politicians and high-profile figures have found themselves on shaky ground due to their attendance. The first casualty was Agriculture Minister Dara Calleary, who had issued an apology within a couple of hours of the story breaking last Thursday. After this, pressure mounted, with reports that Mr Calleary had met with Taoiseach (Irish Prime Minister) Micheal Martin. He had initially been pencilled in for an appearance on RTE's flagship news programme Morning Ireland last Friday morning - but this was cancelled and before the programme was finished, Mr Calleary had resigned. Minister for Agriculture was scheduled to appear on our programme this morning to address the Clifden function he attended in breach of government guidelines. A spokesperson has informed the programme that the Minister is no longer "immediately available". Since the event, Jerry Buttimer, the leas-chathaoirleach (deputy chairman) of the Irish senate, has also resigned. My letter to Cathaoirleach of the Seanad  Supreme Court judge Seamus Woulfe, who has faced criticism due to his role in giving legal advice to the government, has also apologised for his attendance. While not currently in government, former EU trade commissioner Phil Hogan was put forward by Enda Kenny's Fine Gael-led government for a position with the EU. His resignation could have ramifications that go beyond Ireland's shores, as he would have led free trade negotiations with the UK post-Brexit. On Sunday morning, Mr Hogan issued a "fulsome and profound" apology for attending the event, but a spokesperson for the trade commissioner told RTE he would not be resigning. It then emerged that the commissioner was stopped by gardai (Irish police) for using his mobile phone while driving in County Kildare on 17 August, before he travelled to Galway for the golf dinner. The except in exceptional circumstances. The event has come at a time when the Republic of Ireland has seen an increase in coronavirus cases. On Saturday 15 August, prior to all of the controversy, it reported 200 new cases in one day - the largest number for The numbers were described by Taoiseach Micheal Martin as "deeply concerning", while Ireland's acting chief medical officer Dr Ronan Glynn said the phased reopening has resulted in some people "acting recklessly". In addition to this, provisional dates for lifting certain lockdown measures have been pushed back as case numbers have worsened. Plans to open pubs, which had been pencilled in for 10 August, are now set to be reviewed again. On Sunday, the Irish government issued a statement confirming parliament would be returning early from its summer break. While it did not say this was explicitly down to the controversy around the event, opposition parties have said the action is necessary to bolster confidence in the government response to the coronavirus pandemic. Leader of the Irish Labour Party Alan Kelly said it was "not acceptable" for there to be a delay in government returning. "Why can't the Dail be sitting on Tuesday? We need a new agriculture minister to deal with the outbreaks in meat plants," he said. "We also need to deal with all the confusion regarding restrictions and obviously we need to deal with the events that have gone on over the last week." Sinn Fein leader Mary Lou McDonald said the Dail needed to "begin the process of rebuilding public confidence", while Catherine Murphy TD, co-leader of the Social Democrats, said there was "too much at stake for the government to be waiting around". The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.