Long queues of eager customers formed outside shops just hours after the new rules came into effect. The government said it had eased the lockdown because South Africa was seeing a decline in coronavirus cases. . More than 500,000 infections and 11,000 deaths related to Covid-19 have been reported in the country. South Africa has the most effective coronavirus testing system in Africa. Tobacco and alcohol firms opposed the ban on the sale of liquor and cigarettes, saying it was having a negative impact on business. Medical experts, however, supported the ban, saying it was vital that people led healthy lives while helping to ease the pressure on health services. Some experts say smokers can increase the risk of spreading the virus because they project droplets - and potentially Covid-19 if infected - when they exhale smoke. Last week, Police Minister Bheki Cele said most types of crimes went down between April and June - including sexual assault and arson - because of the lockdown. Violent and property-related crimes went down by 29%, he said. This is the second time this year that South Africa has lifted its ban on alcohol - after briefly doing the same in July. , people are also allowed to travel between provinces, while visits to family and friends are permitted in small groups of up to 10 people. Parks and beaches have also reopened and sporting events can go ahead without spectators. Wearing face masks in public remains mandatory. Alcohol sales are only permitted between 09:00 and 17:00 on Mondays to Thursdays, and South Africans are subject to a nightly curfew from 22:00 to 04:00. Many South Africans have told local media of their relief - including . On Twitter, Petri van Zyl joked that fumes from "happy smokers" were visible from space: You can already see the smoke from happy smokers on satellite images in South Africa after the ban on sale of cigarettes have been lifted remarked Moe Chanda on Twitter, while and keep wearing masks and washing their hands. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.