Dr Saman Mir Sacharvi and Vian Mangrio, 14, were found dead at their home in Reedley, Lancashire on Thursday. The men, from Burnley, aged 51 and 56, were both held on suspicion of two counts of murder, two of rape and one of arson with intent to endanger life. The 56-year-old was released without charge. The other remains in custody. Lancashire Police has urged anyone with information to contact them and said there were "a number of lines of inquiry". Det Supt Jon Holmes, head of major crime, said: "Our thoughts remain with Dr Sacharvi and Miss Mangrio's family and friends at this awful time and we send them our deepest condolences. "We have a team of detectives dedicated to the investigation and we will leave no stone unturned." in a tribute issued by Lancashire and South Cumbria NHS Foundation Trust. She had worked in the trust's specialist perinatal community mental health team since February and most recently at its Daisyfield site in Blackburn. Perinatal lead consultant Gill Strachan said: "She was approachable, diligent and had formed good working relationships with the team. "She was empathic and well-liked by the women and families that she worked with. "During lockdown when Covid-19 restrictions were in place, she went out of her way to support the care of women, personally delivering prescriptions to women isolating at home. "The team are shocked and saddened, and she will be greatly missed." Alyson Littlewood, the head teacher of Marsden Heights Community College where Vian was a student, said: "We are heartbroken by the tragic deaths of Vian and her mother and our whole school is mourning the loss of two much-loved members of our community." She said Vian was an "outstanding student" who had a "wonderful mix of academic ability coupled with an enthusiasm for everything else that school can offer". "She was very popular and was extremely supportive of her friends, was generous to all and had a smile that could fill a room. "We were all very fortunate to have her in our lives and we will miss her on a daily basis." Floral tributes have been left outside the family home by well-wishers. One card read: "RIP Gorgeous. Thank you for everything you have done for me and made me a better person. "You'll always be in my heart. I miss you so much. May you and your mom rest in peace. Love from Sky xxx" Another unsigned message said: "May some good love come out of this horrendous crime. May people learn tolerance. "My thoughts and prayers are with you both. Stupid, stupid. So sad, bad, wrong." Dr Sacharvi died "as a result of pressure to the neck" and had been assaulted, police said. Vian was found badly burnt inside the house but the cause of her death has yet to be determined, the force added. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.