In London, it aims to "peacefully occupy the centres of power and shut them down" and protests are also planned in world cities, including Amsterdam, Berlin, New York and Sydney. But who are Extinction Rebellion's supporters and what are they hoping to achieve? Extinction Rebellion (XR for short) wants governments to declare a "climate and ecological emergency" and take immediate action to address climate change. It describes itself as an international "non-violent civil disobedience activist movement". Extinction Rebellion was launched in 2018 and organisers say it now has groups willing to take action in dozens of countries. The group uses an hourglass inside a circle as its logo, to represent time running out for many species. In the UK, Extinction Rebellion has : Reducing CO2 emissions to almost zero in six years' time would be extremely ambitious. Severe restrictions on flying would be needed. Diets would have to change, by drastically cutting back on meat and dairy. And there would have to be a . But those involved with Extinction Rebellion say the future of the planet depends on it. "We have left it so late that we have to step up in a semi-miraculous way to deal with this situation," said co-founder Gail Bradbrook. However, the group doesn't say what the solutions to tackle climate change should be. Instead, it wants the government to create a "citizens' assembly", made up of randomly selected people representing a cross-section of society.  Its members would decide how to solve the climate crisis, with advice from experts. In April 2019, Extinction Rebellion held a large demonstration in London. Over the course of 11 days, some of the city's busiest routes were brought to a standstill. The action resulted in more than 1,100 arrests - most on suspicion of not following police instructions to move. Some activists glued themselves to trains and to the entrance of the London Stock Exchange. Some marched on Heathrow Airport and others chained themselves up. Internationally, Extinction Rebellion estimates an additional 400 of its activists have been arrested since 31 October 2018, including . In June, activists , several German protesters , and in Paris the police used It is not difficult to find people who object to Extinction Rebellion's tactics - from delayed drivers on Twitter to newspaper columnists. Its supporters have been criticised as " " who plan to ruin thousands of holidays and risk . April's London protests , according to Met Police Commissioner Cressida Dick. Extinction Rebellion says anyone angered by its protests should "find out more about the severity of the ecological and climate crisis". It has also defended causing criminal damage, such as smashing windows. It says such tactics are sometimes necessary and that it is " " not to put anyone at risk. Young people are most likely to agree with its aims, suggests. Among 18- to 24-year-olds, 47% either "strongly supported" or "somewhat supported" the disruption of traffic and public transport to highlight Extinction Rebellion's aims. That compared with 36% of those aged 50-65 and 28% of over-65s. It has also received support from public figures, such as the actress Emma Thompson, politicians Diane Abbott and Caroline Lucas and the bands Radiohead and Massive Attack. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.