Welsh pubs, restaurants and cafes and will be unable to open to customers beyond 18:00 GMT in a bid to curb a rise in coronavirus cases. People in Wales will be able to from Friday. So what do England's tiers mean for those living and working in Wales? Yes. In a word. There will be restrictions but as cross-border travel rules are relaxed on Friday from 18:00, you can go to - but not to areas under the strictest measures in tier three. It means travel to places like London, Liverpool, Chester, Cheltenham and Bath will be possible within the new rules - which start at 18:00 on Friday - but not to Manchester, Birmingham or Bristol. There are caveats, though. While pubs in can now open - and every English county that borders Wales is in tier two - you . One cabinet minister did say drinkers in those tier two areas of England can to keep in line with post-lockdown rules. The also mean you cannot "mix with anyone who is not part of your household or support bubble" when indoors. The Welsh Government is urging people against cross-border travel in an attempt to curb rising coronavirus rates. "We are advising people in Wales not to travel into those parts of England and Scotland where the infection rate is lower, to help prevent them taking coronavirus with them," First Minister Mark Drakeford has said. "Coronavirus doesn't respect borders - we all have a part to play in keeping Wales and the UK safe. Please think carefully about where you are going and what you are doing. This virus thrives wherever we come together with others." Well, it depends what area of England they live in. You can see loved ones in England's tier one, within the local rules of that area. But you can't go to see family or friends if they live in England's highest tier - which is most of the north east and west, Yorkshire and the Humber, parts of the West Midlands and parts of the south east and west of England. However, if you've a loved one in England in your support bubble, you can still visit them no matter what tier they are in. But people are being urged not to take that trip unless they have to. There are exceptions in all of England's tiers for childcare and . If you do travel to visit your support bubble, once in England you will need to follow the rules that apply there. - levels three and four - is not allowed, much like England's tier three areas, except for essential reasons. So places like Glasgow, Stirling and Livingston are among the eleven local authority areas with the highest Covid measures as all non-essential shops, pubs, restaurants and gyms are shut until 11 December. At level three, alcohol sales are not allowed and cafes and restaurants can only serve food and non-alcoholic drinks and must close at 18:00. But unless you're part of an "extended household". No. A to try to reduce transmission of the virus and Welsh legislations prevents travel Are you fed up of all that online shopping and fancy a look around some real shops? Well, you can do that in any area of the UK - as long as it isn't under the strictest Covid measures. So places like Bristol, Birmingham, Manchester, Glasgow and Northern Ireland are out of bounds. But you can can shop anywhere else although governments are advising people to remain in their local regions. How lovely would it be to have a little bit of winter sun? Well, international travel is allowed again but the government advises that you don't unless it is "essential". People will be subject to , depending on where you've been, but the outright ban on travelling abroad is gone. For those wanting to drive home to see family and friends to celebrate over the festive period, . From 23 to 27 December, people from across the UK will be able to meet. But with numbers limited to three households, some larger families, and those who have relatives who have separated, this may lead to difficult choices when arranging the dinner table. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.