National groups including the Royal Horticultural Society and National Vegetable Society have reported a substantial increase in people starting to grow their own veg for the first time. So what are the merits of taking things into our own glove-clad hands? Charlie Hoskin, 38, her partner Mouse Bragg, 40 and their three-year-old daughter are one of many families who have been inspired to get digging. "Like many our wistful intentions have been catalysed recently by the recent COVID-19 outbreak," she said. They have been isolating for about three weeks now at their home in Cornwall. "We have more time to channel and hopefully once the patch is established we shall enjoy salad-saving sums and a more sustainable lifestyle whilst also hatching a new family habit together," she said. Tamasin Pemberton, a green-fingered mother of three, said since the coronavirus pandemic began she had seen an influx in first-time growers at the Cornish garden centre she worked at - at least before the government . For years she had run her own social enterprise, Perennial Harvest, with a charity arm, trying to give families the skills to "grow their own" in workshops. She admitted enthusiasm had been a little lacklustre - until now. The pandemic seemed to have prompted an "overdue revival," she said, and a chance to share her passion with an audience who were really listening. "It's a lot of people in their 30s and 40s with young families," she said. "People who are really keen but haven't got any experience whatsoever". "It has touched on people's fears about food security - they've seen how bare the shelves are." The UK government and supermarkets have said there would be more than enough food to go round, and to meet the increased demand for deliveries to both stores and households. But UK growers said this week they were facing a "serious labour shortage" that could risks millions of tonnes of . "I don't want this to be frightening to people, I want them to think what can we practically do, and to give our kids the ability to be able to adapt, to persevere," Ms Pemberton said. It has prompted the 43-year-old to start a , full of picture-guides for beginners. Fiona Shenfield, general secretary of the National Vegetable Society, said it had seen a "big increase" in people waking up to the benefits of home growing during the current health crisis. "In fact some of our members have been approached and have been helping by providing spare tomato plants, for example." Leaders at the Royal Horticultural Society (RHS) also reported a boost in interest. Alistair Griffiths, director of science at the the RHS, said: "There are very few, if any, other activities that can achieve all of the things that gardening can - in particular, the measurable impact on active lifestyles and mental wellbeing, such as reductions in depression, anxiety, and body mass index, as well as increases in life satisfaction and quality of life. "Gardening is also a great way to top up your vitamin D... from direct sunlight on the skin." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.