Dustin Lance Black is an Oscar-winning screenwriter, married to Olympic diver Tom Daley, who believes the UK would be better off remaining in the EU. Ulrika Jonsson is best known for her TV presenting, and staunchly believes in Brexit. They went into the meal without knowing who they would be meeting. But did they get on? I'm Dustin Lance Black, a film-maker and civil rights activist. I think people in the UK best know me as the guy who will take their picture when they run into Tom Daley. But I'm also his husband and the dad to our child. I've landed squarely in the camp of, "this is not the time to leave the European Union". There may come that time, but right now, what I believe should be done is to work to repair and strengthen the EU, because it's not perfect - rather than leave it. Just incredibly open-hearted. As I walked in, she made eye contact with me - it was warm eye contact, a lovely smile, and I just felt right away that this is going to be OK. I found it really illuminating. I think both of us came into it with curiosity, which makes a huge difference. That's the missing element in most of our political debates these days - curiosity. Being right is overrated! If someone is saying that they're right about the future, that's a claim only a fool would make. We both brought our children, so I got to meet her daughter and she got to meet my son. I left starving, because I think we both forgot to eat our food, we were talking so much. Oh, tons! I think we were both looking at Brexit through the filter of what is best for our children. She had the pork and I had the vegetable curry! She pointed out to me that the European Union was not exactly in the best condition to serve UK interests. That's something that Remainers need to consider and take to heart. Yes. I asked her to get in contact when she's in London next. Thoughtful, open-hearted and fierce. She was a 10! Going into the date, I was terrified. I left that date filled with joy. If something goes from terror to joy, it can only be a 10. Watch the on weekdays between 10:00 and 11:00 GMT on BBC Two and the BBC News Channel. And see . I'm Ulrika Jonsson. I'm a mother of four, a writer and sometimes TV presenter. I even hosted the Eurovision Song Contest! I absolutely abhor the bloated, bureaucratic machine that the EU has become and for that reason alone, they deserve to be deflated. My first impression was actually, "thank God!". I just thought that Lance looked like he had kindness written all across his face. Gosh, the date went really well. I found him really engaging, and I felt that I could put across my points without having my head bitten off, or it being met with aggression - because I think Brexit has become such an aggressive issue. The best thing about the date was Lance. Does that sound corny? I think when he talked to me about the fears of the LGBT community with Brexit. It was not part of the Brexit conversation when we were discussing it two years ago. My sister is gay, so I feel a bit ashamed that it hadn't really occurred to me. Absolutely. Things were so binary, and aggressive in 2016 [during the referendum], so it was reassuring to know there are still people in this world who can bring us back to the sensible, gentler, democratic way of having a conversation. He definitely convinced me that the future is so uncertain and not as simple as we had hoped it might be. When we went to pay the bill. I fished my cash out and he was embarrassed as he didn't have a wallet with him. Oh, 100%. Kind, warm and clever. I would say nine out of 10, and the only thing that would have made it better would have been if I could have wolfed the food down - I was surprisingly hungry! Find out what happened when... The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.