The two parties have supported a deal to restore Stormont's political institutions. The British and Irish governments published on Thursday, after nine months of talks. Stormont's power-sharing coalition, led by the DUP and Sinn Fein, collapsed in January 2017 over a green energy row. Before the proceedings began, both the Ulster Unionist Party and the Alliance Party confirmed that they would be entering the new executive. Alliance leader Naomi Long also revealed that she would be accepting the position of justice minister. That means all five main parties in Northern Ireland will join the executive. In the first item of business, Sinn Fein's Alex Maskey was elected as the assembly's new speaker after a vote. Out of the 83 MLAs - members of the legislative assembly - who voted, 51 backed the former lord mayor of Belfast. The DUP's Christopher Stalford; UUP's Roy Beggs and SDLP's Patsy McGlone are his three deputies. The MLAs are now set to appoint the 10 ministerial roles. DUP leader Arlene Foster and Sinn Fein Vice-President Michelle O'Neill are expected to be named first and deputy first ministers respectively. The proceedings are being streamed live on the from 13:00 GMT, and there will also be coverage on BBC Parliament and BBC Two NI from 15:30 GMT. Relations between the DUP and Sinn Fein had deteriorated in recent years as the two parties were diametrically opposed not only on Northern Ireland's position within the UK, but also issues such as the Irish language; same-sex marriage; abortion and how to deal with the legacy of the Troubles. But unexpectedly it was a row over a green energy scheme which pushed their relationship past breaking point. The was set up by DUP leader Arlene Foster when she was enterprise minister, but it ran over budget and at one point threatened to cost taxpayers PS490m. Sinn Fein demanded that Mrs Foster step aside as first minister during an inquiry into the RHI scheme and when she refused, they . Two key sticking points in the Stormont talks were around an Irish language act and the petition of concern. The purpose of The draft deal says there is to be "meaningful reform" of the petition, which would be "reduced and returned to its intended purpose" and would "only be used in the most exceptional circumstances and as a last resort, having used every other mechanism". The proposed deal would see legislation created for the appointment of both an Irish language commissioner and an Ulster-Scots commissioner. Earlier, Irish language group Conradh na Gaeilge welcomed the draft deal as "historic advancement but added it "falls very much short" of promises for an Irish Language act. Other key points in the deal include The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.