Thousands of schoolchildren have flooded into city and town centres across the country as classrooms around the world were abandoned for a day of demonstration. In Bradford, primary schoolchildren led about 100 people with loud chanting outside City Hall. Despite the windy weather, there was a clear feeling of excitement. Danny, 14, said: "What's the point in learning if it's not going to do anything because your future is going to be ruined by climate change?" His sentiments were shared by Hannah, 18, who joined a crowd in Quarry Park Shrewsbury, Shropshire. She said: "I believe there's no point of us getting an education and planning for the future if there is going to be no future." Thousands of young people marched through Brighton chanting loudly and holding a variety of banners. One of the city's Labour MPs, Lloyd Russell-Moyle, joined the march saying "students will learn more today than they will in the classroom." Lana, 13, said: "They're messing up our future and we're the ones who are going to have to clean it up, so I think it's important that we come and tell them about it. "The school haven't let us go, they say there's consequences but it's more important than school attendance to come here and protest." Her friend Bea said: "I really don't care what consequences they give us, it's more important that we fight for our future. This is the world we're going to have to live in". In Manchester protesters causing minor delays. Metrolink boss Danny Vaughan said: "It's disappointing that they've chosen to disrupt Metrolink - which, ironically, is one of the greenest and most sustainable ways to travel across Greater Manchester." Toni, 15, from Stockport, said: "I tried to come to the last protest but my school said no. "My head of year said no this time but I think it is more important to come. "I think I'm going to get into trouble though." Thousands of people also marched through the streets of Birmingham. Arjun, 16, said: "We are at the point that in 12 to 20 years the effects of climate change are going to be irreversible. "The only way to change it is through the younger generation because the older generation don't really care." What started out as a gathering outside Plymouth's Civic Centre turned into a protest through the streets when more than 100 students were told they were on private property. Students briefly stopped traffic at a pedestrian crossing chanting "System change, not climate change" and "Climate, change it back", before marching through a shopping centre. After being diverted back outside by the centre's security guards, they descended on the offices of local MP Luke Pollard, who addressed the crowd. One protester, Dylan, was leading the chants as the students marched through the streets. He said it was time the government was given "a wake-up call" after "missing emissions targets in the Paris climate agreement". In Newcastle City centre, the Monument was surrounded by hundreds of young people chanting "we want action now". They said they did not want to strike, play truant or waste the time of their teachers but they had to make a stand. Tom, 17, said: "This is my life, the life of my children in the future, so to be off school is a brave move for us all." The students came from a number of schools across the city with one common purpose, demanding the Government declare a "climate emergency" and allow young people to have their say on their environmental future. One student, Hannah, was celebrating her 18th birthday. She said: "For my birthday I asked everyone to come here today, we won't have a future if we don't act now." In Guildford lots of parents turned out to support their children. A minute's silence was held for the victims of the New Zealand mosque attacks. Layla, 16 said: "The reason I go to school is so I can have a future. If I don't come here then I'm not going to have a future anyway, so this is more important for me at the moment." as classrooms were abandoned for a day of demonstrations. Thea, 17, from Ipswich said: "This is potentially the biggest threat facing my generation and I couldn't forgive myself if I didn't stand up now." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.