The Queen, who celebrates the jubilee in 2022, opened the bridge, which links England and Wales via the M48, in 1966. South Gloucestershire Council voted on Wednesday to write to the transport secretary to request the change. But opposition Labour councillors abstained saying it could "reignite arguments of toxic nationalism" on the England and Wales border. It is likely there would be a public consultation before a final decision. Matthew Riddle, Conservative member for Severn Vale, proposed the motion, saying he wanted the region to "go the extra mile" to mark the jubilee "in a suitable manner". It did not contain a specific name, but he said his preference was the "Queen Elizabeth Severn Bridge". "This is an historic occasion and we should mark it as a nation," he said. "It's not just that she's reigned for 70 years, it's that she's done it in an exemplary way." Councillor Ian Boulton, deputy leader of the Labour group, said the name change could "embarrass" the Queen and the council because of a lack of consultation with Welsh politicians. He said that instead of "igniting feelings of patriotism" it could "reignite arguments of toxic nationalism on both sides of the border". When the second Severn crossing was renamed the Prince of Wales Bridge in 2018, it The newer of the two bridges was opened by the prince in 1996, 30 years after the original crossing. The Queen's 70-year reign will be celebrated across the UK with a from 2 to 5 June 2022. To create the long weekend, the late May Spring Bank Holiday that year will be moved to Thursday 2 June and an additional Bank Holiday will be created on Friday 3 June. As well as a wide range of public celebration events, jubilee medals will be awarded to public services workers and trees will be planted as part of the celebrations. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.