About descended on an industrial site in Carrington and at Daisy Nook Country Park on Saturday. Police struggled to maintain order at both events, which had their venues changed at the last minute, as they dealt with a surge in 999 calls. One parent said his son was "dying in a field" as officers tried to find him. On Friday, police raided a house in the Salford area and arrested a 33-year-old man on suspicion of conspiracy to cause a public nuisance and criminal damage. They seized audio/visual equipment and a laptop linked to Carrington. A 20-year-old man died of a suspected drug overdose at the Daisy Nook rave in Failsworth while a woman was raped, and three people stabbed in Carrington. As a warning to others, Greater Manchester Police (GMP) has released footage of the struggles officers faced trying to reach the teenager because there were no safety precautions in place. It comes amid fears of further illegal raves planned this weekend. The parent, who has asked not to be named, told BBC Radio Manchester if it had not been for the actions of emergency services, his son "wouldn't be with us today" and warned that next time "it might be too late". "Kids think they are invincible and they make these decisions and I know my son will regret it for the rest of his life," he said. "These events aren't safe, there's no cameras, no security because of where it was and the inaccessibility. "They had to do amazing things just to get to him to save him." The video shows officers running across scrubland, having abandoned their vehicles, to try and find the injured teen. Despite the warnings, the force said it was aware of further illegal raves being planned this weekend. GMP said those who attend face the prospect of arrest. "They are utterly unacceptable and we will do all we can to prevent them from happening," a spokesperson said. A this weekend covering land surrounding Carrington and . Merseyside Police has also appealed to the public's "better nature" not to break lockdown rules and attend illegal gatherings, after about on 5 June. Lancashire Police said it was aware of an and will have a "dedicated policing operation in place". The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.