It includes pupils entered to sit tests, who have a sibling already at the school or have gone to a local primary. The separate tests run by AQE and PPTC will be used by most grammars in 2021. However, some grammars have said The AQE tests are due to take place on 9, 16 and 23 January while the GL Assessment test, run by PPTC, takes place on 30 January with a reserve test on 6 February. Pupils in Northern Ireland are due to return to school for the new term in the first week of January but that The tests take place mainly in grammar schools and However, the five main teaching unions have to the transfer test to be put in place. Although most grammar schools are not expected to publish the criteria by which they will select pupils until early 2021, some have already made theirs public. They include details of "Covid-19 criteria" - the alternative criteria they will use to select pupils if the tests are cancelled or there is "such disruption" to them that a child entered for the test cannot receive a score. Pupils seeking admission will be expected to have entered to sit the relevant transfer test used by the school even if it does not take place. After that, other common criteria will be used such as whether a child has a brother or sister already at the school or if a child is the eldest in their family transferring from primary school. Other criteria include whether a child is transferring from a local or "feeder" primary school or where a child has a parent who was a past pupil of the school. If the grammar school has a "prep" school which the child has attended, that is likely to give them priority for a place in the event transfer tests are cancelled. Each grammar may also outline other criteria more specific to their area. However, not all grammar schools will use the same criteria in the same order as their individual Boards of Governors decide which are most important. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.