A spokesman confirmed the effort was being headed up by Andy Rubin, who was previously in charge of the Android operating system. The spokesman was unwilling to discuss what kind of robot was being developed. But the New York Times reports that at this stage Google to consumers. Instead, the newspaper suggests, Google's robots could be paired with its self-driving car research to help automate the delivery of goods to people's doors. It notes the company has recently begun a same-day grocery delivery service in San Francisco and San Jose, called Google Shopping Express. That would pitch the initiative against which envisages using drones to transport goods to its customers by air. "Any description of what Andy and his team might actually create are speculations of the author and the people he interviewed," said Google of the NYT article. One UK-based expert welcomed the news. "This is a clear sign that days of personalised robotic technology entering the mainstream market is imminent," said Prof Sethu Vijayakumar, director of the Robotics Lab at the University of Edinburgh. "Movement and sensing systems for robotics technology have made great strides. Now, with mainstream companies like Google taking up the challenge, other elements such as robust software integration, standardisation and modular design will pick up pace." The search giant's robotics project is based in Palo Alto, California, and will have an office in Japan - one of the world's leading nations in the field. Speaking to the NYT, Mr Rubin said Google had a "10-year vision" for bringing the effort to fruition. "I feel with robotics it's a green field," he said. "We're building hardware, we're building software. We're building systems, so one team will be able to understand the whole stack." The companies acquired by Google to jumpstart its effort are: The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.