The site at Birmingham's Millennium Point is one of seven across England and will offer about 2,500 vaccinations a day when it is fully operational. It comes as England's chief medical officer Prof Chris Whitty warns the coming weeks will be One of the first patients said she had been "so excited" to get the vaccine. Olga Leach-Walters is an endoscopy nurse at Birmingham's Queen Elizabeth Hospital. "It is very important that I come out and show my colleagues as well as the BAME community how important it is to take this Covid vaccine," she said. "I have lost a lot of family members and this vaccine is going to change a lot. "I am happy and I am thrilled and I know I will go home sleeping better tonight." The first 130,000 letters for appointments at mass vaccination sites have already been sent out, with some vulnerable patients saying they were unwilling to travel the extra distance to Birmingham. The government hopes in all 15 million people - the over-70s, healthcare workers and those required to shield - can be vaccinated by mid-February. Millennium Point is currently using the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine, which, like the Pfizer-BioNtech one, needs to be delivered in two doses. Users on Twitter quickly spotted how the lighting at the Birmingham site appeared on early interviews. The angels with the jabs... [?] [?] Georgina Clinical training lead turned excited vaccinator under a halo of light @ Birmingham Selina Wilson, a 46-year-old occupational therapist, was also among the first to be vaccinated there and said she felt "great". Ms Wilson, from Redditch, said she hoped it would ultimately mean more opportunities to see her four grandchildren, but for now she was "heading straight back to work" at Moseley Hall Hospital in Birmingham. Dr Peter Ingram, who is working on the vaccine rollout in the Midlands, said about 80% of the appointments on Monday were for the over-80s, with the rest for healthcare staff. "Hopefully by next week it will be well over 2,500 people a day - but we want to increase that," he said. Among the over-80s was Rita Passey who has been shielding throughout the pandemic. "I had a letter from the NHS on Saturday and rang up straight away," she said. "I'm excited it's happening. People needn't be worried about any of it, the staff have been brilliant." The 81-year-old from Redditch said she felt "relieved" after the vaccine, "not just for me but for my family, for my children". Brian French, who received the vaccine alongside his wife said the couple were looking forward to the day they could "go out and about" without worrying. Mr French, 81, has previously had a kidney transplant and has been shielding at their home in Sutton Coldfield. "It's so fantastic to know these vaccinations are finally happening," he said. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.