The bodies of Nicole Smallman, 27 and Bibaa Henry, 46, were discovered on Sunday in Fryent Country Park, Brent. They were the daughters of former Chelmsford Archdeacon Wilhelmina - Mina - Smallman. Acting Bishop of Chelmsford, Rt Revd Peter Hill, said he was devastated to hear of their "tragic" deaths. "Nicole and Bibaa were the daughters of our former archdeacon and good friend Mina Smallman," he said. "This is heartbreaking news and the thoughts and prayers of everyone at Chelmsford Diocese are with Mina and her family." Mina Smallman, who retired in 2019, was the first woman from a minority ethnic background to hold the title of archdeacon in the Anglican church. Her daughters had been among a group who had gone to celebrate Ms Henry's birthday on Friday evening. People gradually dispersed from the party, leaving the two sisters alone by midnight. They were reported as missing on Saturday after they failed to return home. Their bodies were discovered shortly after 13:00 BST. found both women died from stab wounds. Ms Henry, a senior social worker in children's services at Buckinghamshire council, was described as "well-liked and highly valued" by her colleagues. She had worked at the local authority since 2017. "She was committed to caring for and supporting children and young people across Buckinghamshire. She will be very much missed by all of us here at the council", the council's cabinet member for children's services, Mark Shaw, said. Her sister, a photographer and University of Westminster graduate, was described as "a joy to be around". A university spokesman said she was a "talented artist who successfully pursued her passion for photography in documentary and theatre production after graduating from the course." "She was friendly, enthusiastic and much-loved by colleagues and students alike." South London actress Paisley Billings posted on Twitter: "I'm in shock rn. RIP Nicole Smallman you we're always such a joy to be around. Your energy was beautiful, kind and infectious." I'm in shock rn. RIP Nicole Smallman you we're always such a joy to be around. Your energy was beautiful, kind and infectious. No arrests have been made but the Met said it had several lines of inquiry. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.