Passenger Damien Oldsworth saw the attack as the bus was travelling through Sawley in Derbyshire on Wednesday afternoon. He said he alerted the driver, who pulled over to allow the injured victim on board, while he and another passenger helped the boy. The teenager is in a "critical but stable" condition in hospital. A 15-year-old boy from the area has been charged with causing grievous bodily harm with intent, and has been remanded in custody to appear at Southern Derbyshire Magistrates' Court. Two 14-year-olds also arrested have been released on bail. The stabbing happened at about 14:40 GMT on Wednesday on Tamworth Road. Mr Oldsworth, an ex-soldier who was travelling home from work, said he shouted "stop the bus" at the "top of his voice". The 37-year-old said: "The driver opened the door and the lad came in. He was terrified." Another passenger, who wished to remain anonymous, said he used his work jacket and jumper to try to stem the bleeding, while Mr Oldsworth supported the boy's head. Mr Oldsworth added: "I felt horror and shock but I put that to one side," he said. "I thought, 'This boy needs help'. "It was a fight or flight moment. "It was only when I got home that the reality set in. I'm still in shock." A spokesperson for the bus company said: "After the stabbing took place in the street, we are glad our passing driver and passenger were able to help the injured boy. "We have provided CCTV recordings to the police and of course will help them as they investigate the incident. "We send our best wishes to the child in hospital." A spokesman for Derbyshire Police said: "We would like to thank those members of the public who came to the boy's aid and gave support until emergency services arrived at the scene." The force is investigating and appealed for any witnesses to come forwards. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.