A vicar's daughter born at Swardeston, near Norwich, Edith Cavell worked as a nurse at the Berkendael Institute in Brussels from 1907, where she helped pioneer modern nursing techniques in Belgium. She was arrested for treason in August 1915 for helping more than 200 Allied soldiers escape occupied Belgium before being shot by the Germans two months later at the age of 49. Her body was exhumed in 1919, given a military escort to Dover and then for a memorial ceremony. Crowds gathered to see Cavell finally laid to rest in the grounds of Norwich Cathedral. So celebrated is she that there is a statue commemorating her life in Westminster, London. Her death made a big impact in Britain, its empire and the wider world, with memorials in London, Norwich, Melbourne and Brussels, and she even had a mountain named after her in Canada. In the immediate aftermath of her death, the nurse was used heavily in the British propaganda drive - a campaign that sometimes obscured the real Edith Cavell. Laura Clouting, historian at the Imperial War Museum, said: "World War One was the first time propaganda was used as a weapon of war. It starts off very early on with the German advance through Belgium and focuses on the perceived outrages by the Germans. It is in this atmosphere that the use of Edith Cavell's death can be seen. "It was used to galvanise public opinion against the Germans." Across the British empire, Cavell's death was used to spur the recruitment of soldiers. In Canada one poster features a picture of Cavell bearing the slogan "Murdered by the Huns" and urges people to "Enlist in the 99th (Essex battalion, of the Canadian Expeditionary Force) and help stop such atrocities". In Britain, recruitment numbers rose from 5,000 to 10,000 a week following her death. Recruits were needed by the British army to replace those lost on the Western Front - conscription was not introduced until 1916. Cavell's death was also used to encourage support for Britain among neutral countries. Early news reports often distorted the truth of her death, apparently for propaganda purposes. Even the American Journal of Nursing repeated the fictional account of Cavell's execution in which she refused a blindfold for the execution and then fainted. The German commanding officer then shot her dead with a pistol, according to this account. The story featured on a number of postcards. She is also often depicted wearing a nursing uniform when she was a shot by the firing squad, which she had made a point of not wearing as she was not being shot for her nursing. Cavell's biographer Diana Souhami said the nurse's death "was used for propaganda purposes" and as a "clarion call for getting soldiers to join the army". "They saw Cavell as this innocent victim," she said. But Ms Souhami believes this is a distorted image of her. "Times have so changed now - there is not the same patronising attitude towards women," Ms Souhami told the BBC. "We can now see her for what she did. She knew she was part of this network (to rescue Allied soldiers). "I think she should be remembered as a pioneering hospital matron and remembered as an intrepid war hero who, with great courage and guile, helped get soldiers out of the country to safety," she said. "She should not be seen as a victim." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.