On Saturday afternoon, . It led to the justice and infrastructure ministers calling for an urgent meeting of the NI Executive. Arlene Foster said "significant action" had already been taken earlier this week "in advance of other regions". That means that in NI, there is currently no change to rules that allow . However, a statement from the first, deputy first and health ministers did urge people to "think seriously about their plans for Christmas, and to now consider limiting their coming together to Christmas Day only". Mrs Foster and Ms O'Neill spoke to the health minister, chief medical officer and chief scientific adviser after the prime minister's statement announcing the change of rules in England. The first minister said: "Progression of a new variant strain of Covid-19 in England is concerning, and a reminder to us all to be on our guard to the dangers of the virus. "We urge everyone to carefully consider their plans so that they are as safe as possible, particularly for those who are more vulnerable." Ms O'Neill added: "We have already taken difficult, but necessary, decisions here to introduce severe restrictions from 26 December. "This critical intervention was made to protect the health service and save lives. "We will be keeping the current situation under very close review and will continue to be guided by the advice of our scientific and medical experts. "Christmas bubbling arrangements are in place for those who feel they need to come together. If you must avail of them, then please consider doing so for one day only, Christmas Day. "Keep your bubble as small as possible and meet for the shortest amount of time you can." Health Minister Robin Swann said: "If you have made plans for Christmas, revisit them to keep those who matter to you safe. "Those who are vulnerable remain vulnerable. If you are meeting family or friends, keep it as small, as short and as local as possible." A , in a bid to suppress the spread of Covid-19. Earlier Naomi Long said urgent clarity was needed for families, while Nichola Mallon said "we need to act now". Naomi Long said that with "Christmas just days away, [the] executive needs to meet tomorrow to provide clarity for families, particularly those planning to travel to form bubbles". "People need answers urgently," she tweeted. Nichola Mallon tweeted that "people are rightly concerned by reports tonight". "We need to act now and provide clear communication to the public," she said. It comes as Saturday's figures show a further 17 Covid-linked deaths were recorded in NI and there were a further 640 cases of the virus, bringing the Department of Health's death toll to 1,183. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.