On 24 December, the amid concerns over another new strain of the virus linked to that country. People who have transited through South Africa in the past 10 days will also be banned. However, UK and Irish nationals as well as the UK visa holders and permanent residents are exempt, but they will have to self-isolate for 10 days on arrival. It had already been pretty difficult to travel abroad - because of quarantine rules either at your destination or when returning to the UK. Here are some of the requirements currently in place. EU countries held discussions on Tuesday and decided to lift the compete travel ban, allowing national citizens, foreign residents and key workers to travel from the UK to their home country, if they have a negative Covid test. But EU countries are free to set their own rules on border controls, so the exact rules vary from country to country. This is , as so many have taken measures. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office has to other countries. Many restrictions in place to limit the spread of coronavirus mean travel options are limited. In , people who live in a tier four "stay at home" area or a tier three "very high alert" area have been told to avoid travel, including overnight stays, unless it is necessary. In , people can only travel internationally for essential reasons. From December 28, Wales will go in to a lockdown, meaning people should only leave their area for essential reasons. In , people have been told to "avoid all unnecessary travel" from 26 December, when a six-week lockdown starts. In , people living in higher risk level three or four areas should avoid unnecessary travel. Most people arriving in the UK from many destinations - including British nationals - must quarantine for 10 days. Exceptions are made for the Common Travel Area - the Republic of Ireland, Channel Islands, or the Isle of Man - or people coming from countries in travel corridors with the UK. It means there have been only a small number of destinations with no restrictions at either end. There are hopes that the new will make travel to more destinations possible in the coming months. People arriving in England can now cut their quarantine period by at least half if they pay for a private Covid test after five days and it comes back negative. But the government will only allow certain test providers to take part in the scheme, and they have . Transport Secretary Grant Shapps has also suggested rapid testing - which can give a result in under an hour - could eventually The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.