The Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) said both Antrim and Newtownabbey stations were being closed for a "deep clean". It was confirmed by police on Saturday afternoon that 51 officers were self-isolating. On Saturday, an additional 71 cases of the virus were confirmed in Northern Ireland by the Department for Health. Assistant Chief Constable Alan Todd said plans are in place for continued delivery of police services. "We are also working to identify any other risks arising from this outbreak and will address those with our health care partners," he said. "We have undertaken, and we will continue to undertake, a range of appropriate measures, in line with public health advice and guidance, to address the issue," he said. 8 confirmed cases and over 50 officers isolating following outbreak in Antrim / Newtownabbey. Stations closed and welfare hub running to support our colleagues during this time.     ACC Todd said "colleagues from across the district are also self-isolating and will undergo testing for Covid-19". Mark Lindsay, chair of the Police Federation for Northern Ireland (PFNI), said a "welfare hub" is in operation to support officers. "This outbreak in Antrim and Newtownabbey stations once again shows the extent to which officers put themselves at risk protecting society as a whole," he said. He said "contingency plans" would be put in place to ensure there are enough officers to cover "policing demand". "I think it's very important the public are reassured that they will have cover there." Meanwhile, 71 more cases of the virus were confirmed in Northern Ireland by the Department of Health on Saturday. Of these, the largest rises have been seen in the Mid and East Antrim area, with 19 cases; Belfast, with 14 cases; and the Antrim and and Newtownabbey area, with 10 cases. Of the 71, 43 are people aged 39 and under, with 13 cases aged 19 and under. There were 19 cases for people aged between 40 and 59, and nine cases for people aged over 60. It brings the total number of cases to 6,647. In the Republic of Ireland, there were an additional 156 cases of Covid-19 and two further deaths reported by the Department of Health. It brings the total number of deaths in the country to 1,777, with 27,908 cases, including the denotification of one death and three cases. The Republic's acting Chief Medical Officer Dr Ronan Glynn encouraged the public to follow public health guidelines, and limit gatherings in their homes to six people from only three households. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.