All of Liverpool, Wirral, Sefton, Knowsley, Halton and St Helens will move to the higher level of restrictions from midnight. Neighbouring Cheshire and Warrington join . Steve Rotheram said people were "fatigued" but "will get through this." , households cannot mix indoors apart from support bubbles and a maximum of six can meet in parks and public gardens. Food venues are restricted to takeaway and drive-through only but shops, leisure centres and hairdressers remain open. Liverpool made headlines when it was chosen to pilot mass testing in early November after soaring cases in October saw the city among the highest coronavirus death rates. picked up 1,300 infections in people without symptoms in a population of about half a million. Health Secretary Matt Hancock later declared the decline in cases "remarkable", but cases have since begun to rise again. Wirral currently has the highest case rate of all the city region's authorities, with 220 cases per 100,000 people. Council leader Jan Williamson said ramping up restrictions was "not unexpected and the right response given our increasing numbers". She added that people must "heed the restrictions", especially over New Year's Eve. "I strongly urge that if you are planning any celebrations tomorrow night, do it safely and in accordance with the restrictions, which means no mixing of households." Data from 24 December shows Halton had 209.4 cases per 100,000, with Liverpool and Knowsley close behind at 208.2 and 205.3 respectively. Sefton had the lowest rate of 189.5 while St Helens' was at 198.8. The region has been in tier two since 2 December. Mr Rotheram said: "Being placed into tier three is something that none of us wanted, but I hope that these new measures help to slow down and contain the spread of the virus quickly." "We are once again facing tough weeks, perhaps even months, but together I know we will get through this." Two sold out NYE sessions. 4 bands and 2 DJs booked. All our staff working. 10 food traders with prep. Sound technicians. All alcohol already ordered... To find out it can't happen. 2020 has been insanely tough for everyone but this one stings. Some hospitality venues that had prepared for a busy New Year's Eve tweeted their disappointment. Buyers Club bar and restaurant in Liverpool apologised to those who had booked and tweeted their lack of surprise, saying: "So here we go again." Bosses at another of the city's bars, Berry and Rye, which is currently closed, said the timing of the announcement showed "a quite outstanding lack of consideration for business". Mr Rotheram reiterated calls for the government to "step-up" and offer more financial support. The change also means sports fans will once again be barred from matches, with Everton's home against West Ham on Friday night the first to be affected. : "We won't be able to welcome fans to Goodison until further notice, including Friday's game with West Ham." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.