Jason Leitch told BBC Scotland that this demographic had been a "challenge" in the area as some had been visiting other households. The area has overtaken Glasgow as having the highest rate of Covid cases. Mr Leitch also said Scotland should ". NHS Lanarkshire have now confirmed they are treating more patients for Covid in its hospitals than at the height of the first wave of the pandemic. The weekly rate of positive tests in NHS Lanarkshire far surpasses the figure in other health boards at present, with 352.6 cases per 100,000. In Glasgow, where Covid was most prevalent in September, the figure is currently 242.7. Short-term Covid restrictions which led to the closures of bars and restaurants in the central belt have now been extended - a decision influenced by the Lanarkshire rates, according to Mr Leitch. We are currently treating more patients for Covid-19 in our hospitals, than we were at the height of the first wave of the pandemic. With your help, we can reduce the risk of Covid-19 in our hospitals.   "We've been watching Lanarkshire very carefully for two or three weeks," he told BBC Radio's programme. "Some of the big urban numbers were related to student halls and outbreaks within our universities and further education. "[It's] now much more under control - not resolved and still a risk so students need to be very careful for us. Lanarkshire doesn't have that same student population - it has a travelling student population in and out of the urban centres. "The other challenge with Lanarkshire is it would appear to be a slightly older age group. One of the reasons for the very draconian and horrible hospitality measures was that slightly older age group in Lanarkshire because a lot of them were related to house meetings or going out." He added that conversations were being held over whether stricter rules would be imposed in Lanarkshire as part of the forthcoming tier system. NHS Lanarkshire has since appealed to residents to help stop the spread of Covid, with 220 patients receiving treatment in its hospitals on Wednesday. Director of acute services Judith Park said the volume of patients was causing "severe pressure" on resources. She also highlighted that A&E services were "exceptionally busy" - in September 15,898 people visited emergency departments in NHS Lanarkshire, an increase from 9,279 at the height of the pandemic. "We need to ensure that our hospitals comply with physical distancing," she said. "Therefore, please do not attend our emergency departments unless it is an emergency. "If you have an appointment at one of our clinics or departments, please attend alone. The exception to this is for children and vulnerable adults, who can be accompanied by one person." The decision to extend the temporary regulations has been met with great disdain from the hospitality sector. The Scottish Hospitality Group warned the extension would have "devastating consequences" while campaigners are demanding wider ranging support for the embattled industry. Paul Waterson, of the Scottish Licensed Trade Association, told BBC Scotland: "I don't think there is any doubt that very many successful businesses will not be able to ride this out and might not be able to open again. "The battle is on to save the licensed trade in all its different forms." The Scottish government said it had made a range of grants available to help businesses weather the financial pressures. When asked what restrictions might look like closer to Christmas, Mr Leitch said it was too early to tell - but warned against large gatherings. "I'm hopeful costs now may get us a more family Christmas, but Christmas is not going to be normal - there's absolutely no question about that," he said. "We're not going to be in large family groupings with multiple families coming round. People should get their digital Christmas ready." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.