They were both on strong Bafta Cymru shortlists, which included Sir Anthony Hopkins, Jodie Whittaker and Michael Sheen. The awards recognised Welsh talent in 24 categories across film, games and television production. Anorac, a documentary feature about the history of Welsh language rock music, won four awards. Creevy, one of 19 first-time nominees, played teenager Bethany in BBC Three coming-of-age drama In My Skin, which dealt with insecurities of growing up and mental health issues. It also scooped the best TV drama award. She thanked her mother, boyfriend, and the programme's writer for "an amazing opportunity", adding: "Thank you so much for believing in me." Congratulations ! Celyn takes home the Actor award tonight for his performance as Levi Bellfield in Manhunt. Bydd Ynys Mon a gweddill Cymru yn dathlu gyda ti heno!  Sponsored by  Anglesey-born Celyn Jones, who played serial killer Levi Bellfield in ITV's Manhunt, joked about his fellow shortlisted nominees that he was "the only one I've never heard of". The best actor winner said he was "thrilled to bits" but said he hoped the families and loved ones of the victims would get stronger. The ceremony took place at Cardiff's St David's Hall. The first award of the evening went to S4C's Priodas Pum Mil - or Five Thousand Pound Wedding - which took best entertainment programme. The best single documentary award went to Critical: Inside Intensive Care, a BBC programme that revealed the life-changing decisions made by doctors, patients and their families. Celebrities attending included Gavin and Stacey star Ruth Jones and Anthony Daniels - C3PO in the Star Wars series - who presented Whittaker, who films Doctor Who in Cardiff, said: "It's just lovely, it's really exciting, there are loads of us from work here tonight. As ensembles go, Doctor Who is huge - it's a lot of blood, sweat and tears for something you're incredibly proud of at the end." Actor Iwan Rheon, who presented the Sian Phillips award to TV producer Bethan Jones, said: "She gave me my first ever job [in Pobol y Cwm] and really pushed me and inspired me, so it's special to be here to present the award." Ms Jones said it had been "terrifying" but a "great honour" and that she had been fortunate to work with some extraordinary talent. Documentary feature Anorac, in which broadcaster Huw Stephens celebrates the history of Welsh language rock music, led with six nominations. Stephens won best presenter, saying it was "such a pleasure" making the programme. "It's had an amazing reaction - at film festivals, audiences which don't speak Welsh love it, so we're really happy it's been given the Bafta Cymru nod." It also won awards for Joni Cray and Gruffydd Davies in the photography factual category, Jules Davies for sound and Madoc Roberts for editing. Sir Anthony, although not at the ceremony, was shortlisted as best actor for the title role in Richard Eyre's film adaption of King Lear. The other nominees were Michael Sheen for his role in Netflix drama Apostle, which won two awards, Matthew Rhys for playing Billy Winters in TV historical drama Death and Nightingales. Whittaker, nominated as best actress for Doctor Who, was up against Sian Gibson, from Peter Kay's Car Share, and Eiry Thomas for S4C drama Enid a Lucy. Russell T Davies won best writer for A Very English Scandal, about the Jeremy Thorpe affair in the 1970s. The BBC Wales Investigates produced The Universal Credit Crisis won the news and current affairs award. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.