Firefighters were called to a blaze in a flat above Japanese restaurant Noodle One on High Street at about 03:00 GMT on 17 December. Gwynedd Council said the fire had caused extensive damage and compromised the structural integrity of two buildings. Two local politicians said businesses should be given financial relief. The council said removing debris, stabilising 164 and 166 High Street, and reconstruction work was "likely to take until Easter". Temporary traffic diversions have been put in place. All other high street businesses remain open and traffic will still be able to access the upper high street via Lon Pobty. The council's head of environment Dafydd Wyn Williams said: "Removing debris and making these buildings safe will be a complex and challenging task. "Unfortunately, having explored all possible options, our structural engineers have confirmed that there is no way in which this work can be safely completed without the need to keep this section of the high street closed to traffic for a number of weeks. "We fully appreciate the impact of this situation on local residents, traders and shoppers, and every effort is being made to complete the work as swiftly and safely as possible." In a joint statement, Arfon's MP Hywel Williams and Welsh Assembly member Sian Gwenllian - both from Plaid Cymru - said they had been contacted by businesses from the high street who had expressed concern at the situation. "Several businesses have commented on the downturn in trade and problems with deliveries accessing premises on the high street, particularly for heavy vehicles," they said. "Given the impact on local businesses, we have asked the council to look at what alternative temporary measures can be put in place to help ease the pressure on local businesses, both in terms of providing financial relief and contingency traffic arrangements." They said it was vital local people supported the high street during a "difficult" time. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.