that coronavirus deaths could be twice as high over the winter as they were in the spring unless he - and the whole country - acts now. He'll insist it was "right to try every possible option" at a regional level first, but nationwide action is now non-negotiable. Despite criticising the time it's taken to get to this point, Labour MPs are expected to vote in favour of the lockdown on Wednesday. Not all of Mr Johnson's own MPs will back it, though. Full details of the new restrictions are still to be published, but - around the same time as his father. The Sun newspaper, said he was treated by palace doctors and isolated at the family home in Norfolk. BBC royal correspondent Jonny Dymond said the duke may have kept his diagnosis private to avoid alarming the nation. Kensington Palace has refused to comment officially. So far, no areas have been designated tier four - the top level. while the Highlands, Western Isles, Moray, Orkney and Shetland are all in level one. for the likes of schools and hospitality, and to see the situation where you are. Meanwhile, Northern Ireland's schools reopen today, mid-way through a four-week national "circuit-breaker" lockdown. Wales continues its "firebreak" too, and From today, designed to provide catch-up tuition for those whose learning suffered most during the spring lockdown. Research suggests the gap between disadvantaged pupils and their more privileged counterparts has widened significantly. More than 15,000 tutors have been recruited and lessons will be 75% subsidised by the government. Education unions, though, say provision could and should have come from schools themselves, rather than external agencies. because of exposure to various pathogens from childhood. Two papers have tried to explain why, despite poorer healthcare, hygiene and sanitation, countries like India have not seen death rates as high as richer nations. They suggest these apparent negatives could actually have saved lives. It's important to say, though, that other factors could also be at play - India's relatively young population, for example - and the research is yet to be peer reviewed. Find more information, advice and guides on our . Plus, England's second lockdown comes with a reintroduction of the full furlough scheme across the UK. . Use this form to ask your question: If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the to submit your question or send them via email to . Please include your name, age and location with any question you send in. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.