says about 85% of people with Covid will have at least one. If you have any of these symptoms you should and not leave home for any other reason. Anyone you live with, or who is in your support bubble, should also self-isolate until the test result arrives. It takes from the moment you are infected to start showing the symptoms, but the World Health Organization says it can take up to 14 days. If the test is positive, your whole household must all No. The coronavirus can affect multiple organs and has several less common symptoms. Scientists using say Covid has six sub-types. Symptoms include: And researchers think that vomiting, diarrhoea and abdominal cramps in children. Lots of other viruses including flu and other infections. This will be a particular problem over winter when these bugs are more common. Public Health England says just under half of people who have one of the three main Covid symptoms will not have it. However, they should still get a test. If you have a positive test result you should from the time symptoms started. You must stay away from other members of your household, who must self-isolate for at least 10 days. Most people will have only mild symptoms, which can be managed with pain relief (like paracetamol), bed rest and plenty of fluids. You should not even go to a GP surgery, pharmacy or hospital. If you are seriously unwell and you have a medical emergency you should call 999 - this includes feeling so breathless that you cannot speak more than a few words. If you are concerned your symptoms are getting worse, use England, in Scotland or the equivalents and . The main reason people need hospital care is for difficulty breathing where they may be given oxygen. The most seriously ill patients may require ventilation where the patient is sedated and air is pushed into their lungs. Older people, and those with pre-existing medical conditions (such as asthma, diabetes, heart disease, high blood pressure), are more likely to become severely ill. Men are at slightly higher risk of dying from the virus than women. The best thing is preferably with soap and water. Coronavirus spreads when an infected person coughs or sneezes small droplets - packed with the virus - into the air. These can be breathed in, or cause an infection if you touch a surface they have landed on, then your eyes, nose or mouth. So, coughing and sneezing into tissues, not touching your face with unwashed hands, and avoiding close contact with infected people are important. People will be most infectious when they have symptoms, but some may spread the virus even before they are sick. Face coverings are also across the UK. . Use this form to ask your question: If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the to submit your question or send them via email to . Please include your name, age and location with any question you send in. (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.