They include more than in the second week of January. Test and trace, or contact tracing, is a system for identifying people who have been in close contact with someone who has caught Covid. Almost 4.7 million close contacts have been reached so far. Those people are then asked to self-isolate for 10 days - even if they have no symptoms - to prevent the chance of passing the virus on, if they have it. Each UK nation has its own contact tracing service: People who have for coronavirus are contacted by app, text, email or phone. They are asked to log on to a website and give personal information, including: Close contacts are: Contact must have taken place within a nine-day period, starting 48 hours before symptoms appeared. If you are approached because one of your contacts has tested positive, you must stay at home for 10 days from your last point of contact with them. even if you don't have symptoms. Others in your household don't have to self-isolate unless they also develop symptoms, but must take extra care around you regarding social distancing and hand washing. There is also an NHS Covid app for people in England in Wales, which you can download on a smartphone (but not on smart watches or tablets). To get started, go to or and search for "NHS Covid-19". Your phone must have Android 6.0 (released in 2015) or iOS 13.5 (released in May 2020) and Bluetooth 4.0 or higher. That excludes the iPhone 6 and older versions of Apple's handsets. Some more recent Huawei phones will not load the app either. and have their own apps. When two phones running the app are near each other, they will make contact through Bluetooth. If they are close for a long enough time, and one of the two owners later shares a positive coronavirus test via the app, then the other will receive an alert. You can also use the app to check in at venues - for instance, shops or places of worship. Used alongside manual contact tracing, the app can help identify close contacts of a user who tests positive, or visitors to a premises that has suffered an outbreak. The prime minister claimed the UK's test and trace system would be "world-beating". But it has encountered several problems along the way. The mobile app was meant to launch in mid-May and form a key component of the UK's tracing strategy. But the original attempt, which used a ''centralised'' approach to storing data, However, NHS Test and Trace's head, Baroness Harding, claims that the programme is now having a "material impact" on lowering the R number in England. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.