"These are the people and places that have been left behind," says Chris Millward of the Office for Students. The watchdog has used a new measure to see which groups are likely or not to go to university. MPs are investigating low attainment among white working class pupils. The Office for Students - which are indicators of whether someone is likely to go to university. This combined measure found white youngsters on free meals or from disadvantaged areas were 92% of those in the bottom fifth, in terms of the likelihood of going to to university. These were particularly concentrated in some areas - such as parts of Nottingham, Great Yarmouth, Barnsley, Sheffield, Stoke and Hull. Mr Millward, director of fair access, warns that these communities, "over successive generations", have missed out on the rise in access to universities. "The expansion of educational opportunities, and the belief that equality of opportunity would flow from this, have not delivered for them. So they are less likely to see education as the way to improve their lives," writes Mr Millward. The research emphasises the importance of place, identifying particularly low entry rates in "former industrial towns and cities across the north and midlands, or coastal towns". But white students on free meals in London seemed to have bucked the trend, with an the entry rate that "has pulled away from that in other parts of the country" - and the capital overall has higher rates of going to university. Figures from the Department for Education last year reported that "male white British free school meal pupils are the least likely of all the main ethnic groups to progress to higher education". The Education Select Committee is investigating why "left behind white pupils from disadvantaged backgrounds" seem to be underachieving in education. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.