The Prince of Wales is the Queen's eldest son and . On 29 July 1981 he married Lady Diana Spencer, who became the Princess of Wales. The couple had two sons, William and Harry. They later separated and their marriage was dissolved in 1996. On 31 August 1997, the Princess was killed in a car crash in Paris. Prince Charles married Camilla Parker Bowles on 9 April 2005. As heir to the throne, his main duties are to support the Queen in her royal commitments. Prince William is the eldest son of the Prince of Wales and Diana, Princess of Wales, and is . The Duke was 15 years old when his mother died. He went on to study at St Andrews University, where he met his future wife, Kate Middleton. The couple were married in 2011. On his 21st birthday he was appointed a Counsellor of State - standing in for the Queen on official occasions. He and his wife had their first child, George, in July 2013, their second, Charlotte, in 2015 and third, Louis, in 2018.  The prince trained with the Army, Royal Navy and RAF before spending three years as an RAF search and rescue pilot with RAF Valley on Anglesey, north Wales. He also worked part-time for two years as a co-pilot with the East Anglian Air Ambulance alongside his royal duties. He left the role in July 2017 to take on more royal duties on behalf of the Queen and Duke of Edinburgh. Prince George of Cambridge was born on 22 July 2013 at St Mary's Hospital in London. Prince William was present for the birth of his son, who weighed 8lb 6oz (3.8kg). He started primary school in September 2017. Prince George is , after his father and grandfather. The Duchess of Cambridge gave birth to her second child, a baby girl on 2 May 2015, again at St Mary's Hospital. The Duke of Cambridge was present for the birth of the 8lb 3oz (3.7kg) baby. The duke and duchess named her Charlotte Elizabeth Diana. She is and is known as Her Royal Highness Princess Charlotte of Cambridge. The Duchess of Cambridge gave birth to her third child, a baby boy weighing 8lbs 7oz, on 23 April, 2018 at St Mary's Hospital in London. The Duke of Cambridge was present for the birth of Louis Arthur Charles. Prince Louis (pronounced Lou-ee, not Lou-iss) is Prince Harry is He trained at the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst and went on to become a lieutenant in the Army, serving as a helicopter pilot. He has been a Counsellor of State since his 21st birthday, standing in for the Queen on official duties. During his 10 years in the Armed Forces, Capt Wales, as he became known, saw active service in Afghanistan twice, in 2012 to 2013 as an Apache helicopter co-pilot and gunner. He left the Army in 2015 and now focuses on charitable work, including conservation in Africa and organising the Invictus Games for injured members of the armed forces. He married US actress Meghan Markle on 19 May, 2018, at Windsor Castle. In January, the royal couple said they would step back as "senior" royals and divide their time between the UK and North America. They said they intended to "work to become financially independent". The Sussexes' first child, Archie Harrison Mountbatten-Windsor, was born on 6 May 2019, weighing 7lbs 3oz, with the duke present for his birth. By naming him as they did, the couple chose not to use a title for their first born. When the name was announced, BBC royal correspondent Jonny Dymond said the decision was a strong indication the couple did not want to bring him up as a formal royal. He is Prince Andrew, was the third child of the Queen and Duke of Edinburgh - but the first to be born to a reigning monarch for 103 years. He was created the Duke of York on his marriage to Sarah Ferguson, who became Duchess of York, in 1986. They had two daughters - Beatrice, in 1988, and Eugenie, in 1990. In March 1992 it was announced the duke and duchess were to separate. They divorced in 1996. The duke served for 22 years in the Royal Navy and saw active service in the Falklands War in 1982. In addition to royal engagements, he served as a special trade representative for the government until 2011. Princess Beatrice is the elder daughter of Prince Andrew and Sarah, Duchess of York. Her full title is Her Royal Highness Princess Beatrice of York. She has no official surname, but uses the name York. She married property tycoon at The Royal Chapel of All Saints at Royal Lodge, Windsor, in July 2020. The couple had been due to marry in May, but coronavirus delayed the plans. Princess Eugenie is the younger daughter of Prince Andrew and Sarah, Duchess of York. Her full title is Her Royal Highness Princess Eugenie of York. Like her sister Princess Beatrice, she has no official surname, but uses "York." She married her long-term boyfriend Jack Brooksbank at Windsor Castle on 12 October 2018. She will retain her royal title and will have the option of taking her husband's surname. Prince Edward was given the title Earl of Wessex and Viscount Severn on his marriage to Sophie Rhys-Jones in 1999. The couple have two children, Lady Louise, born in 2003 and James, Viscount Severn, born in 2007. After a brief period with the Royal Marines, the prince formed his own TV production company. He now supports the Queen in her official duties and carries out public engagements for charities. Viscount Severn is the younger child of the Earl and Countess of Wessex. The couple decided to give their children "courtesy" titles as sons or daughters of an Earl, rather than the style prince or princess. It is thought this decision was made to avoid some of the burdens of royal titles. Lady Louise Windsor is the elder child of the Earl and Countess of Wessex. She also has a "courtesy" title. The Princess Royal is the Queen's second child and only daughter. She was given the title Princess Royal in June 1987. Princess Anne has married twice; her first husband Capt Mark Phillips is the father of her two children, Peter and Zara, while her second is Vice-Adm Timothy Laurence. The princess was the first royal to use the surname Mountbatten-Windsor in an official document, in the marriage register after her wedding to Capt Phillips. She competed in equestrian events for Great Britain in the 1976 Montreal Olympics and is involved with a number of charities, including Save the Children, of which she has been president since 1970. Peter Phillips is the eldest of the Queen's grandchildren. He married Canadian Autumn Kelly in 2008 and together they have two daughters, Savannah, born in 2010, and Isla, born in 2012. The children of the Princess Royal do not have royal titles, as they are descended from the female line. Mark Phillips refused the offer of an earldom when he married so their children do not have courtesy titles. Savannah, born in 2010, is the elder daughter of Peter and Autumn Phillips and the Queen's first great-grandchild. Isla, born in 2012, is the second daughter of Peter and Autumn Phillips. Zara Tindall has followed her mother and father with a highly successful riding career - including winning a silver medal at the London 2012 Olympics. She married former England rugby player Mike Tindall in 2011 and the couple had their first child, Mia Grace, in 2014. The children of the Princess Royal do not hold a royal title, as they are descended from the female line. Their father, Mark Phillips, turned down an earldom when he married Princess Anne, so they do not have courtesy titles. The Queen's granddaughter Zara Tindall gave birth in January 2014 to a baby girl weighing 7lb 12oz (3.5kg). The couple's second child - the Queen's seventh great-grandchild - was born on 18 June at Stroud Maternity Unit, Gloucestershire, weighing 9lb 3oz. Lena Elizabeth, named in honour of her great-grandmother, is 20th in line to the throne. Her first name is pronounced Lay-na. As she does not have a royal title, like her sister, Lena Elizabeth will be known simply as Miss Tindall. If you cannot see the full family tree, (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.