The widely derided musical was given six Razzies, including worst picture and worst director for Tom Hooper. James Corden was named worst supporting actor, while Rebel Wilson was named worst supporting actress. The gongs were due to be announced at a live LA ceremony but instead took place via video link after the event was cancelled due to coronavirus concerns. The movie adaptation of Andrew Lloyd Webber's hit stage show boasted a star-studded cast, which also included Taylor Swift and Dame Judi Dench. But its glitzy line-up couldn't save it from its haul of Razzies, which also included worst screen combo and worst screenplay. It follows the panning it received from critics. And that came after Hooper redesigned the characters, following a backlash over its trailer. The film had an estimated budget of $95m (PS77m) and has to date managed to claw back $74m (PS61m) at the worldwide box office, according to Box Office Mojo. Even the cast have since mocked the movie, with Rebel Wilson joking about its failure when presenting awards at the Golden Globes and again when joined by Corden, both in full cat costumes, at the Oscars. Dame Judi Dench, who played Old Deuteronomy even confessed she had not watched the completed film. "I didn't read anything about the response to it, nor have I seen it," . The Oscar-winner said she was "only slightly" aware of the response to the film, adding, "I think people have been rather kind to me." But she took the news that she'd been nominated for a Razzie in good spirits. "Oh well, that will be good," she laughed, "as far as I know, that's a first." Hilary Duff's performance in The Haunting of Sharon Tate earned her the dishonour of being named worst actress, and John Travolta was named worst actor for Trading Paint and The Fanatic. Rambo: Last Blood didn't shine either, being named worst remake, rip off or sequel, as well as "worst reckless disregard for human life and public property". But Eddie Murphy won the Razzie Redeemer award - honouring a past Razzie recipient who has gone on to do better work - for his role in Dolemite is My Name. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.