It comes as the government announced the county, along with Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire, would remain under the highest tier four restrictions. Buckinghamshire Council leader Martin Tett said case rates could increase to 800 per 100,000 people "by next week". He said the increase was due to the new Covid-19 variant. Mr Tett said a 60% rise in cases in the over-60s was "putting our health and social care services under very severe pressure". He added: "Whilst today's announcement about the approval of the Oxford vaccine is excellent news, we still need to deal with the deteriorating situation we face immediately." Neil Macdonald, from Buckinghamshire Healthcare NHS Trust, said non-urgent operations and outpatient appointments would be postponed or delayed. "But urgent operations, including cancer, will continue as planned," he added. In Buckinghamshire, the district of Milton Keynes' primary schools will remain closed temporarily, as they will in the Hertfordshire districts of Watford, Broxbourne, Hertsmere and Three Rivers. Education Secretary Gavin Williamson said those primary schools affected . Secondary schools across England will remain shut for an extra two weeks, except for exam-year pupils who return in the week of 11 January. Mr Williamson said temporary shutdowns would cut chains of transmission. But Peter Marland, Labour leader of Milton Keynes Council, that "the government haven't bothered to advise the actual local authorities" whose primary schools would not reopen to all pupils on 4 January. He said the authority had "not been given any information at all". "It is a disgrace," he added. Councillor Terry Douris, cabinet member for education at Hertfordshire County Council, said he recognised "disruption to education causes difficulties". He said the authority was working for schools in the affected districts so vulnerable children and children of critical workers could "attend school in some capacity". In Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire and Hertfordshire, the areas recording the biggest week-on-week increases for the seven days to 25 December were Hertsmere and Watford in Hertfordshire. Hertsmere rose from 598.6 per 100,000 to 864.5, with 907 new cases, while Watford went up from 505.3 to 770.4 per 100,000, with 744 new cases. Tier four was imposed on 20 December. Tier four means all non-essential shops must close, along with hairdressers, gyms and leisure centres. Hundreds of Buckinghamshire residents have signed a petition demanding that schools remain closed in tier four areas to curb the spread of coronavirus. and include: Activities still allowed include: For a more detailed look at coronavirus where you live, use the BBC's postcode checker: A modern browser with JavaScript and a stable internet connection are required to view this interactive. Enter a full UK postcode or council name to find out Or you could use this interactive map to check your district: Sorry, your browser cannot display this map The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.