They are aimed at stopping the spread of infection by making people stay at home unless absolutely necessary. nobody may leave their homes "without reasonable excuse". Reasonable excuses include: Religious ministers are also allowed to visit their place of worship. When outside your home, you should keep a safe distance of 2m or more from anyone who is not a member of your household. Many businesses and venues have been ordered to close. These include: Shops that remain open include supermarkets, pharmacies, petrol stations and post offices. A full list can be found . Tradespeople can still carry out repair and maintenance work in people's homes as long as they are well and have no symptoms, and keep 2m away from people in the household. However, in households where people are self-isolating, or where a vulnerable individual is being , no work should be carried out except emergency repairs to remedy a direct safety risk to the household. All gatherings of more than two people have been banned by the government. The only exceptions are: In addition, the government has stopped weddings, baptisms and other religious ceremonies, apart from funerals. The restrictions were announced on 23 March by Prime Minister Boris Johnson, with the plan to review them after three weeks. The police have been given powers to make sure people follow the measures. If you leave your home or gather in public for any reason other than those allowed, the police may instruct you to go home or disperse. They may also instruct you to stop your children from also breaking the rules. They also have the power to take you home or arrest you. If the police believe you have broken rules, or if you refuse to follow their instructions, they may issue you with a fine of PS60 (reduced to PS30 if paid within 14 days). If it's the second time you've received a fine, the amount will increase to PS120 and double on each further repeat offence. The guidance says that "the police will act with discretion and common sense in applying these measures". Local authorities (such as trading standards officers) will be monitoring local businesses to make sure they also follow the rules. Those that don't comply will face the threat of fines, and of being closed down. Coronavirus spreads when an infected person coughs small droplets into the air. These can be breathed in, or cause an infection if you touch a surface they have landed on, and then touch your face with unwashed hands. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.