Matthew Mason, 20, admitted bludgeoning 15-year-old Alex Rodda with a wrench in Ashley, Cheshire, on 12 December 2019. He claimed the killing was the result of a loss of control after being blackmailed by the teenager. Mason has now been sentenced to life with a minimum term of 28 years after Judge Steven Everett described the killing as "pre-meditated murder, carefully planned and, in my judgment, ruthlessly carried out". "You were hoping you would kill him and hide his body to make it look as if he simply decided to disappear," he said. The judge said farmer's son Mason, from Ollerton, Cheshire, was "much more worldly wise" than his victim who was young and immature for his age. He told him: "Although I accept Alex Rodda may very well have initiated contact with you in the latter half of 2019, I am sure that you not only responded but actively encouraged a sexual relationship. "You groomed him. It was not your first sexual experience but it was his. "While it is clear that Alex Rodda naively, as I see it, demanded money from you. It must be firmly kept in mind that this all came about because of your sexual offending and you chose to behave in that way." Chester Crown Court heard the pair had known each other for some months and had "enjoyed an intimate sexual relationship". In the month prior to the murder, Alex contacted Mason's girlfriend to tell her that her boyfriend had been messaging him "in a flirty way" and had sent an explicit photo and video, the court heard. The then 18-year-old denied the allegations to his girlfriend but began making payments to Alex's bank account. On 12 December 2019, Mason picked Alex up from his home and drove him to a remote area of woodland, taking a wrench with him. Det Insp Nigel Reid said Mason "had murder on his mind as he drove Alex to his death under the pretence of sexual activity". "He chose a secluded place to kill him in cold blood, a place he believed he would go unseen and his crime undetected," he said. In victim impact statements read out in court, Alex's parents paid tribute to their "beautiful, loving boy". His mother Lisa said: "When you lose a child in the most horrific and brutal circumstances as a parent you really do experience hell. "My boy was raised in love, not fear. He did not have to wear a mask. I brought my son to be proud of who he was." Alex's father Adam said: "He was a fun-loving, respectful boy who always considered other people's feelings. "We will never get over the loss of our beautiful, loving boy. Our lives will never be the same again." Alex, a pupil at Holmes Chapel High School, was struck at least 15 times to the head in an attack described as "brutal" and "merciless". His partially-clothed body was discovered by refuse collectors the next morning. After the killing, Mason went to a friend's farm to clean up and then to two pubs where he met friends. He later returned to the woods, where the prosecution believe he dragged Alex's body to the side of the road and attempted to put him inside his car. After failing to do this, he drove away. But a witness had taken a photo of his Renault Clio car parked on the track and reported this to police. Mason was identified as the owner and arrested the next day. It later emerged he had made internet searches for phrases including "what would happen if you kicked someone down the stairs", "everyday poison" and "the mysteries of Cheshire unsolved deaths of missing people". The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.