The current period for those without the virus is 14 days, which has been changed after medical endorsement. It will now apply to people who have tested positive for the virus or are at risk of having it, including those returning from . It means Wales will have a shorter isolation period than England. Currently in England, the only people who have a 10-day isolation period , as has been the case in Wales. Contacts of those people must still isolate for 14 days. At present, people in Wales whose close contacts have coronavirus and travellers returning from non-exempt countries are required by law to self-isolate for 14 days - unless they subsequently test positive, in which case they are required to isolate for 10 days from the date of the positive test. From Thursday, people in Wales should self-isolate for 10 days if they: The Welsh Government said people in Wales using the NHS Covid-19 app will be able to stop self-isolating when there are still four days remaining on the countdown timer. "App users who live in Wales can stop self-isolating after 10 full days of self-isolation although the app countdown timer shows 4 days remaining," a spokesperson said. The app is not expected to reflect the change in policy until 17 December. Chief medical officer Frank Atherton endorsed the change, which the Welsh Government said was "based on the current available evidence around likelihood of being infectious as a contact after 10 days". The reduction follows amendments to Welsh law which dictate and . Health Minister Vaughan Gething said he believed "families, communities and business" would welcome the change. "Self-isolation and quarantine play a key role in stopping the spread of the coronavirus and I want to thank everyone who continues to follow the rules and play their role in keeping Wales safe," he added. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.