Ardent Partridge fans Nick Dutton and Gavin Fulcher were behind the larger than life "gift to Norwich". Sculptor Mr Fulcher said: "It was just a bit of fun really. I think during this time we could all do with a bit of light relief." It has now gained Alan's approval: "I grant my consent and will instruct my legal team to resheathe their daggers." His statement on Twitter : "Although this is completely unauthorised, having taken counsel, I am happy that the statue's attitude and stance are correct." Mr Fulcher and Mr Dutton denied the 11ft (3.3m) figure was a publicity stunt for Alan's latest podcast produced from his shed. The duo, who are self-employed sculptors in the film industry, said they designed and created the cold cast brass statue between work commitments over the past three years. They based the dimensions on a friend who was a "similar size and build" to 5ft 9in (1.75m) actor Steve Coogan. After deciding on the pose, Mr Dutton set to work sculpting a Partridge portrait while Mr Fulcher worked on the body details, including an Argyle sweater, Loafers and Alan's bespoke blazer crest. Mr Fulcher said: "When you go to uni and meet new people, you say you're from Norwich and people instantly mention Alan Partridge. "He is so synonymous with the city, and the people have taken to him too." Coogan announced he would resume the role of the Norwich-based DJ for an 18-part series titled From the Oasthouse: The Alan Partridge Podcast. "All national treasures have a podcast", Alan Partridge said. "If David Dimbleby has one, then of course I needed to make one." The Bafta award-winning character, born in King's Lynn, Norfolk, made his debut appearance in 1991 as a sports presenter on BBC Radio 4's On the Hour. He moved on to television with programmes including The Day Today, Knowing Me Knowing You and I'm Alan Partridge. The statue will remain outside The Forum until Sunday. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.