However, David Lammy, the shadow justice secretary, has criticised the plan for a Commission on Race and Ethnic Disparities. He said the government should focus instead on implementing recommendations from existing reviews. So, what has already been said about race and inequality, and have previous reviews led to government action? In 2018, Wendy Williams, a prominent member of the police watchdog body, was asked to look into the events leading up to the Windrush scandal, in which a number of people were wrongly deported by the Home Office. The review, which was published in March this year, : The Home Office was asked to publish a "comprehensive improvement plan within six months of the report", taking account of all the recommendations. On 23 June, Home Secretary Priti Patel announced that the government would be accepting the report's recommendations "in full." She said that details on how they would be implemented would be announced by the end of July. In 2016, David Lammy was asked to lead a government-backed review into the treatment of black and minority ethnic (BAME) individuals in the criminal justice system in England and Wales. The final , including: On 24 June, the prime minister said that 16 of the recommendations had been met, but Mr Lammy has since written to the prime minister saying that summary contained "a catalogue of falsehoods". He said just six had actually been implemented and a further five had been partially implemented "at best". The Ministry of Justice has, in some places, stated that some recommendations have been "completed", even where they have rejected them on cost grounds or feasibility. For example, one recommendation says that judges should follow an agreed number of cases in the youth justice system to increase their understanding of it. The government "completed", even though they said "we have no plans to require magistrates to follow an agreed number of individuals cases each year". They have, however, increased "information sharing" between the youth justice system and magistrates. They have "completed" their actions, it could be argued, but not necessarily done what was recommended. In his letter to the prime minister, Mr Lammy says that "many of the injustices I raised in my review have since got worse" with the main cause for concern being the youth justice system. For example, young BAME individuals represent half of the entire youth justice system. The McGregor-Smith review looked into issues affecting BAME groups in the workplace in the UK. It found that they were under-employed and under-promoted. "In many organisation, the processes, in place, from the point of recruitment through to progression to the very top, remain favourable to a select group of individuals," it said. Its : The government agreed with many of the recommendations, but said it hoped "reasonable employers in the UK will rise to the challenges", leaving it to private companies to implement changes. On introducing legislation for larger bodies to release diversity data, the government said it believed a "non-legislative solution is the right approach for now". A including a survey of businesses, found that little had changed in the year since the review, with the exception of increased mentoring. The found that, while the death rate of black individuals arrested was not disproportionate to white people in England, the proportion of deaths involving use of force was. It also found that mental health and intoxication was a major factor in deaths in police custody, meaning black people with mental health issues often suffered "double discrimination". Only a handful of the 110 recommendations were specific to race: The government's response or progress update did not make specific reference to deaths in police custody involving minority groups. However, noted it had reviewed guidance on handling allegations of discrimination. It has also given a better breakdown of data in the past two years. Other reports have highlighted institutional discrepancies for BAME groups in the past including: The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.