Before meeting Harry, she had been best known for playing lawyer Rachel Zane in US TV drama Suits. When she became a member of the Royal Family, she gave up her acting career - and immersed herself in the life of a working royal, using the platform to highlight the charities and causes close to her heart. She became a mother in May 2019 but within a year she and Prince Harry had stepped away as working members of the Royal Family and started a new life in North America. Born Rachel Meghan Markle on 4 August 1981, she grew up in a prosperous part of Los Angeles. Her mother's home is in an area known as the "Black Beverly Hills", where the average price of a home is $771,000 (PS587,000). Meghan went to a private primary school in Hollywood and started campaigning for gender equality at an early age. At 11, she wrote a letter to the then US first lady, Hillary Clinton, lamenting a washing-up liquid's TV ad strapline: "Women all over America are fighting greasy pots and pans." Within a month, manufacturers Procter and Gamble had changed the word "women" to "people". "It was at that moment that I realised the magnitude of my actions," she later said. "I had created my small level of impact by standing up for equality." At 15, she was volunteering in soup kitchens as her studies continued at a girls' Roman Catholic college, and she graduated from Northwestern University School of Communication, near Chicago, in 2003. A stint working as an intern at the US embassy in Argentina made her think her path might lead her into politics, but she changed course when her acting career began to take off. Between auditions, she has told of making money by doing calligraphy for wedding invitations, using skills developed in handwriting classes at school. Her father was a cinematographer on the hit 1980s show Married... With Children, and her first television appearance in the US was in an episode of the medical drama General Hospital in 2002, before moving on to roles in CSI, Without a Trace and Castle. There were leading roles in TV movies such as When Sparks Fly and Dater's Handbook, and bit parts in Hollywood films including Get Him to the Greek, Remember Me and Horrible Bosses, and she was a "briefcase girl" on the US version of game show Deal or No Deal. She also appeared in the sci-fi series Fringe, playing FBI special agent Amy Jessup, but her most famous role was in Suits. Meghan was in the show from its launch in 2011, but was written out in the finale of the seventh series. Fittingly, perhaps, she left after her character got married. For the first time, Mr. and Mrs. Ross.    In real life, Meghan's union with Prince Harry wasn't her first marriage. In September 2011, she wed film producer Trevor Engelson, but the pair divorced two years later. In September, that her ex-husband was producing a new TV show based on a man's custody battle with his ex-wife who marries into the Royal Family. In 2014, she began writing about topics such as food, beauty, fashion and travel, as well as her own story, on her lifestyle website The Tig. Meghan said setting up the website was an attempt to "reframe the beauty content to include think pieces about self-empowerment" and feature dynamic, inspirational women. In one post, she explained: "I've never wanted to be a lady who lunches - I've always wanted to be a woman who works." The site also carried candid blogs she wrote on every birthday. On turning 33 in 2014, she wrote: "My 20s were brutal - a constant battle with myself, judging my weight, my style, my desire to be as cool/as hip/as smart/as 'whatever' as everyone else." She also grew a large social network profile, with 1.9 million followers on Instagram and more than 350,000 on Twitter. But she shut The Tig in April 2017, and deleted her social accounts January 2018. Her media career has gone hand-in-hand with support for causes that are important to her. She tackled the issue of the stigma around menstrual health in in March 2017 and was a global ambassador for , which campaigns for better education, food and healthcare for children around the world. As part of her role, the actress travelled to Rwanda for the charity's Clean Water Campaign. Meghan's commitment to gender equality has seen her work with the United Nations, and she received a standing ovation from an audience including UN Secretary General Ban Ki-moon for . Commenting on how she combined acting with campaigning, she said: "While my life shifts from refugee camps to red carpets, I choose them both because these worlds can, in fact, co-exist. And for me, they must." Meghan, whose father is white and mother is African-American, has also spoken about coming to terms with her racial identity. In an , she wrote: "While my mixed heritage may have created a grey area surrounding my self-identification, keeping me with a foot on both sides of the fence, I have come to embrace that. "To say who I am, to share where I'm from, to voice my pride in being a strong, confident mixed-race woman." In late 2016, Prince Harry confirmed he was in relationship with Meghan - . The pair had met on a blind date, organised by a mutual friend. After just two dates, they went on holiday together to Botswana. In September 2017 Meghan told Vanity Fair magazine they were "two people who are really happy and in love". And in an interview that November, Prince Harry admitted he had never heard of Meghan before his friend introduced them, and was "beautifully surprised". Meghan and Prince Harry got married at St George's Chapel, Windsor, on 19 May 2018. Meghan and Prince Harry embarked on their first royal tour together in October 2018 - visiting Australia, New Zealand, Fiji and Tonga over 16 days. The trip coincided with the couple The duke and duchess followed in the footsteps of Prince Harry's parents - Prince Charles and Diana, Princess of Wales - whose first royal tour was to Australia and New Zealand. In September 2019, the couple undertook a 10-day tour of Africa, a continent that has always been particularly dear to Prince Harry's heart, leading to some speculation early in their marriage that they might at some stage choose to live there. Meghan met Archbishop Desmond Tutu and Sophia Williams-De Bruyn, as well as other key figures in South Africa's anti-apartheid movement. She also made a speech to business people in Johannesburg in which she said such entrepreneurs had the power to change a world that seems "aggressive, confrontational and dangerous". But by the end of the tour, the couple's talk about fighting injustice was being reported alongside news for publishing a private letter sent by the Duchess of Sussex to her father. When Meghan gave birth to her son Archie Harrison - on 6 May 2019 - the reaction from the New York Times reflected the mass interest in the event around the world as it wrote: "He is the first multiracial baby in the British monarchy's recent history, an instant star in a country where multiracial children make up the fastest-growing ethnic category." But the royal couple had already decided to do things a little differently, underlining their determination not to follow the traditions of other recent royal births. In advance, they chose not to reveal where the baby would be born and said there would be no running commentary of what was happening, instantly stopping the spectacle of the press pack joining the ranks of "royal superfans" camped outside a hospital for several days waiting for the first glimpse of the new royal. And the birth wasn't initially announced in the traditional royal way of  being posted on a placard outside Buckingham Palace. Instead, Prince Harry popped out of their home to tell the world (although the placard then followed). The very private christening that followed just added to some media frustration that they could not, in their minds, fully report on one of the year's happiest stories. Held at Windsor Castle, the ceremony was not witnessed by any press photographers or TV cameras and the list of guests and godparents was not made public. BBC royal correspondent Jonny Dymond surmised: "It all points to a very different royal event, part of the continuing desire by the duke and duchess to raise their son Archie out of the spotlight." Amid ongoing spats with the media, increasingly through lawyers, it would soon become clear that both Meghan and her husband were becoming increasingly disenchanted with the expectations that came with their royal role. The announcement in June 2019 that they were breaking away from the Royal Foundation charity - which had seen them work closely with the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge - led to frenzied speculation about Prince Harry and Meghan's relationship with Prince William and Catherine. Then there was the revelation that their home, Frogmore Cottage, Meghan's comments during the couple's African tour that she had not felt supported as she struggled with motherhood and her new role did not go down well with senior royals, according to sources at the time. At the end of 2019, the couple took an extended Christmas break from royal duties, taking Archie to the Canadian province of British Columbia. It gave them time to mull over their next move and, within days of the start of a new decade, they dropped the bombshell announcement that they planned to step back as senior royals and become financially independent. Amid the further detail that the couple planned to split their time between the UK and North America, Buckingham Palace expressed its disappointment as before the statement was issued. Talks then ensued between Prince Harry and the Queen before it was confirmed that their couple's final duties as working members of the Royal Family would be in March 2020. The very final engagement saw them attend the Commonwealth Day service at Westminster Abbey. The Queen, Prince Charles and Prince William were all there although one of the abiding memories of Meghan's royal exit - by now widely renamed "Megxit" - was getting a hug from singer Craig David. The couple will still attend some royal events in the future but these will not be classed as official duties. Although some time was spent in Canada, the couple have largely settled at a new home in California. That does of course allow them to spend much more time with Meghan's mother Doria Ragland, who lives in the state. But they are never completely out of the spotlight. There was a media fascination in tracking the couple's whereabouts in the early days of the coronavirus lockdown. In April 2020, they sued and eventually won an apology from a US news agency after drones were allegedly used to take pictures of their son, Archie, at their home. The same month, the couple announced that they were ending all co-operation with four tabloid newspaper groups in the UK, blaming "distorted, false or invasive" stories. But they do remain keen to seek publicity for the causes or issues they are interested in. As a duchess, Meghan took on portfolio of charitable work and patronages, which included the National Theatre and charity Smart Works. She also launched a charity cookbook in September 2018 to help those affected by the Grenfell Tower fire. After moving back to the US, she jointly wrote a newspaper article calling for the end of "structural racism" and the couple also urged US citizens to vote in the presidential election, saying that they should In November 2020, Meghan revealing her "almost unbearable grief" at enduring a miscarriage in July of that year. A source close to the duchess confirmed to the BBC that the couple wanted to talk about what happened having come to appreciate how common miscarriage is. As for their future career plans, a big clue came when they to make a range of programmes, some of which they may appear in. Days later, they repaid the costs of Frogmore Cottage. As BBC royal correspondent Jonny Dymond pointed out, that means "the couple may perceive themselves to be free of any of the obligations they once laboured under". The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.