"I'm literally one of those old women going, 'Where's the camera? Is this thing on?'" The star is speaking from her home in LA where, in reality, she's become something of a technological ninja. In the space of just six weeks, she's planning to write and record a new album from scratch, with only the "tools I have at my fingertips to create all music, all artwork, all videos... everything". The 27-year-old is already one of the most respected songwriters in pop, known for hits like , , and her Icona Pop collaboration . But this time around, she's making the writing process completely transparent - , playing demos and sharing early drafts on her . Not only that, but she's from her producers, crowd-sourcing ideas in mass-participation Zoom calls, and getting fans to create artwork, videos and remixes. "Part of me is like, 'I don't know why I haven't made an album like this before'," she says. "It's so fun and nice to work like this." album cover?? Announcing the project on 6 April, Charli told fans her "positivity goes hand-in-hand with being creative," but that doesn't mean she's immune to difficult days. "Yesterday I cried," . "I was feeling I was asking too much of everyone -  pushing people to make stuff during quarantine when maybe some people just want to chill." But so far, the results rank amongst the singer's best work. The first two singles, Forever and Claws, effortlessly combine her dual instincts for crisp pop melodies and adventurous, corrosive production. She hopes to have the rest of the album, tentatively titled How I'm Feeling Now, available on streaming services in just three weeks' time. When our Zoom connection finally stabilised, Charli flopped down on a beanbag to discuss how the record was shaping up. Actually, I feel quite good right now. I definitely have days where I'm just like, "Oh My God, I feel so unproductive and lost," but generally, I'm quite surprised at how I'm handling this time. I definitely have that feeling too. I'll be like, "Oh my God, it's Friday!" and someone will go, "Er, no, it was Friday four days ago." I'd be really, really struggling. Binge-watching TV and being actually quite sad. It's quite exposing, definitely - but the second I started doing it, I didn't find it scary any more. And that's not because all my ideas are great. Some of my ideas, even the ones I'm posting, are things that maybe won't come into full realisation. But I think, for my fans, it's really nice for them to see the process. I mean, I'd be interested to hear demos from some of my favourite artists, to feel their ideas as they're forming. I find it exciting. It's different every time. That line you mentioned, I'm quite confidently singing it by the end and often, with a situation like that, I would definitely consider basing the song around that phrase. It's not necessarily the actual words I'm saying, but sometimes the vowel sounds contribute to the hookiness of the melody. So I tend to try and stick to the shapes of those words. But sometimes, the line I'm singing in the rough doesn't feel interesting lyrically. That's something I've been struggling with in that demo, actually, because I don't like those words but they're stuck in my head. Recording my own vocals. I haven't done that since I was 15 and making demos in my parents' house. I'm so slow and it drives me crazy. I literally want to throw something at myself. I don't know my way around the software yet. And I'm not skilled enough to comp my vocals - which is where you sing the song five times and choose the best bits from each take. So now, instead, I'm just singing the whole thing right through. I probably sing each part 30 times and by the 30th one, I'm like, "OK, this one is perfect. All the breaths are in the right place, all the nuances are right, this is the one". But it's a very long process. I guess you could say there's a solid flow of emotion in the full takes, I suppose. But I do feel like my takes are really good when I can tell someone else how to comp them. I  wanted to do the album in an intense period of time, because I thought it would be more fun for people watching, and also because there's more likely to be some kind of screw-up or error in a short amount of time, which is probably more interesting. Yeah, I mean, some good stuff's got to happen. I don't want it to be seamless! Claws and Forever are finished, and then there are three other demos which are definitely going to go on the album. After that, there's one other song that's a maybe. But I don't just want to record 10 songs and put them on the album. I want to record multiple songs and decide which are the main 10. Definitely. Part of me is like, "I don't know why I haven't made an album like this before". I'm enjoying not travelling and being still and focusing on my music. That's something I never did before. It was always one million things going on at once, and taking a day here and there to record. So I think that will change because I love recording like this. 100%. I would just be lost if I wasn't doing this. And there are a lot of other creative people who can't work during this time - so, for me, doing this project is also a way to support some of those people, whether that be video editors, or the painters who are doing my artwork, or 3D designers, or video directors. And I hope that not only will we be able to make some really great art together, but we'll be able to give back. My plan is to make three unique artworks for each song and I really want to be able to auction off the original artworks and donate the money to a charity. I just started for the first time. I'm on episode nine. And I'm balancing Sopranos with Love Island, which I've never seen before. So I go back and forth between the two, and that is keeping me sane. I've also been painting rocks. I collect them in the garden and I paint them; and I've been enjoying cooking. I was definitely not much of a cook before quarantine. I'm really into soups right now because I'm really trying not to be wasteful. I'm throwing everything I can into them... even that weird can at the back of the fridge that's been there for years. Actually, my manager sent me a message saying, "Oh my God, Bon Appetit [a mega-popular food blog] mentioned you!" And I was like, "What? That's huge!" Then I and it said, "Watching Charli XCX try and cook is like watching a child learn a dance routine for the first time". The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.