Lockdown was eased in June and wedding ceremonies could take place again - but . With cases of Covid-19 remaining at a higher level in Northern Ireland, there have been further changes to the rules for weddings, civil partnerships and receptions. Here's a guide to the rules. In Northern Ireland, the limit for guests is currently set at 25. This number includes children under 12 and the officiant. states that , but with strict conditions. Hotels and other venues licensed for ceremonies had to close on 19 October as a result of new Covid-19 restrictions. Places of worship and local government offices are still permitted for weddings. In , only 15 people can attend a "Covid-secure venue", in wedding ceremonies of up to 20 people can be held and in , receptions of up to 30 people are allowed. In the Republic of Ireland. In Dublin and Donegal, ceremonies can only take place with 25 guests. The rules on gathering in people's homes changed in Northern Ireland on 22 September, making it illegal for more than in a private garden. There is for larger wedding and civil partnership ceremonies to take place in someone's garden. However, in the circumstance that one of the couple is terminally ill, a ceremony inside a private home is allowed. Hairdressers and make-up artists are often an important part of the day, but the coronavirus laws state that close contact services must close until 11 December. so cannot carry out services in their premises either. A photographer or videographer can come to your home, so as long as they can maintain social distancing with no close contact, in line with a completed risk assessment. No. The Executive Office guidance says there is no expectation that the couple or their party must wear face masks during the ceremony or reception afterwards. However, it adds that wearing face coverings in public and indoor places is strongly advised, especially where social distancing is difficult to maintain. Anyone travelling by public transport to a wedding must wear a mask during their journey - with limited exemptions. The advice says large groups should not form for the purposes of photographs unless social distancing can be adequately maintained. The Executive Office says this depends on the venue. Music - either live or pre-recorded - is permitted for ceremonies within a place of worship, however in venues where alcohol may be consumed, such as a hotel, community hall or marquee, live music is not allowed. Recorded tracks are permitted. As of 19 October, no wedding receptions or post-ceremony gatherings are allowed. No-one can say for sure. That depends what happens with the spread of the virus in Northern Ireland. The Executive Office has deemed that indoor marriages and civil partnerships, in the context of Covid-19, must "still be seen as carrying a serious risk". The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.