For new designers, it means getting their clothes seen by the world's press and buyers, alongside established brands like Burberry and Versace. "You study fashion, and that's what you dream of doing. To be actually doing it is really surreal," says designer Supriya Lele. Newsbeat finds out how she and other emerging British designers have managed it. Despite graduating from art school Central Saint Martins two years ago, Matty has become one of the most talked about designers at fashion week. "I was always really focused, and I really wanted to do it, which I find kind of weird, looking back," says the 27-year-old. "My parents never went to uni, so it was quite a rare thing for me to go, but I think if you work hard, it does pay off." The Yorkshire-based designer showed his collection as part of Fashion East. The not-for-profit organisation supports new designers by giving them bursaries and mentoring. "I think it's very important that people realise designers can work outside London. Everything's made in York. "I was lucky I got bursaries at Saint Martins, and we do get a bursary from Fashion East, but I live with my parents. "It's super hard to make a living, make it work and pay the bills. A show is incredibly expensive. The set, the lights, everything. "There's a huge, huge team of people. We have probably 100 just for me, because you have a short space of time to do make-up and hair. It's a lot. "My biggest piece of advice would be, 'Just stick to your own style, and never let people change you.' It's totally possible to do this." "That was my first runway, so it was completely exhilarating," Supriya tells Newsbeat backstage. She's also been supported by Fashion East, creating a collection inspired by her Indian heritage. "Being part of London Fashion Week is mad," explains the 30-year-old, who graduated from the Royal College of Art last year. "In terms of the high glamour of it all, it's not really like that. "It's a lot of hard, hard work, for months and months, for five minutes." She says any would-be designer should "believe in yourself, and push yourself. It will happen". Rihanna and Fearne Cotton are among the fans of Molly Goddard's pastel princess dresses. Mayor of London Sadiq Khan even came backstage to congratulate the 28-year-old after her show. "It was fun. It's three years since the first [fashion event] we ever did, and that feels mad, going from working in my mum's tiny, tiny spare bedroom to having a studio, and employing people," she says. The London-born designer is supported by NewGen, a British Fashion Council scheme that helped launch the careers of Alexander McQueen and Christopher Kane, among others. And her signature oversized designs have been imitated by almost every high street shop. "When I got NewGen support, that catapulted [my career]. "But the main thing is getting help from my friends and my family. It's very much a family business now," says Molly, who employs her sister Alice as a stylist on her shows. She says it's important not to give up if you don't make it as a designer. "It's not all about being like me. There are millions of other jobs in fashion. "Like if you're interested in numbers, it's very useful. People who are good at spreadsheets, at colour... there are lots of relevant roles that are just as interesting as what I do." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.