But we may have found a clue from his Twitter account. @realDonaldTrump has more than 14 million followers but only follows 41 accounts, so we assume you've got to be special to be on the list. So who are the lucky 41 and what chance do they have of staying in Trump's sphere of influence? British Journalist Piers Morgan wrote in 2015 "underestimate him at your peril" and often tweets in defence of the president-elect. One tweeter suggested that he should be his press secretary. Piers Morgan isn't the only Brit on Donald's list. Creator of The Apprentice, Mark Burnett, is also one of the 41. So is his wife, producer Roma Downey. As is the winner of the first series of The Apprentice USA, Katrina Campins. Donald Trump is the first US president to also have the accolade of being in the . He appeared in this bizarre clip from 2007, shaving the head of WWE chairman Vince McMahon's hair in the wrestling ring. Diamond and Silk are two African American sisters with a pro-Trump YouTube channel. They are some of the . Right wing news outlet Fox News has many presenters and reporters who supported Donald Trump. Sean Hannity is one of the more popular hosts on the channel. Geraldo Rivera, another Fox News presenter, previously appeared on Celebrity Apprentice. Ann Coulter is an author and political commentator who appears frequently on the network and is a massive Trump supporter (she's sort of like the American Katie Hopkins). Donald Trump owns a number of brands in golf, hospitality and entertainment who all offered their congratulations on his election. Donald Trump follows his wife and four out of his five children. His youngest son Barron Trump is yet to start a Twitter account. His family members are yet to update their bios as the family of the president-elect. Obviously, Trump follows his running mate Mike Pence. The pair have disagreed on important policies, like what to do in Syria, in the past but they remain followers of each other on Twitter. It remains to be seen whether one will unfollow the other if they have a disagreement. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.