Charges on the bridges were scheduled to be axed by 31 December but Welsh Secretary Alun Cairns confirmed they will be lifted on 17 December. Tolls, currently PS5.60 for cars, have been in place since the original Severn bridge was opened in 1966. Mr Cairns made the announcement at the Tory party conference in Birmingham. "The principle of paying to come in to Wales is something that has irritated us for 50 years," he . The toll on the M4 and M48 bridges - that link south Wales and south west England - was initially reduced on New Year's Day in 2018 after they returned to public ownership as the UK government removed VAT on their take-over. Wales' First Minister Carwyn Jones called for the toll, which is worth up to PS10m a month for the government, to be scrapped straight away on 1 January 2018. But the Department for Transport said the fees collected in 2018 would help pay to phase out tolling and pay towards the estimated annual maintenance and operational cost bill of PS15m. It has been estimated by the Welsh Government that the ultimate abolition of the charges - paid as drivers head westbound into Wales - will benefit the Welsh economy by about PS100m a year. About 25 million journeys a year are made across the two bridges and daily users of the crossings could save about PS1,400 a year once the toll has been removed. But there are concerns that removing the tolls will increase congestion. "If you work or live in Flintshire or Cheshire, you cross the border seamlessly and it creates a much stronger north east Wales and a much stronger north west of England," said Mr Cairns. "I want the same benefits for south Wales. "One modest haulier in Magor who used to pay PS20 for every lorry that passed over the bridge, that was half a million pound on the bottom line of their operation just because they were in Wales." Plaid Cymru MP Jonathan Edwards said in September that Mr Cairns' plan to strengthen economic links between South Wales and South West England showed his disdain for Wales. Mr Cairns responded by calling Mr Edwards "anti-English". . The Queen opened the PS8m first bridge in 1966 while the second bridge, built three miles downstream across the Severn Estuary, was financed by a private consortium set up in 1992. The newest bridge, opened in 1996, cost PS332m to construct but the eventual repayments including debt repayments, interest and tax totalled more than PS1.3bn. Severn River Crossing's 180 staff were transferred to UK government agency Highways England on 1 January 2018 but with tolls set to be scrapped, 115 jobs are at risk. The 60-strong maintenance team is expected to continue. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.