Inspectors found "troubling" conditions at HMP Erlestoke, including violence, indiscipline and cases of self-harm. A scrutiny visit took place last month to assess how conditions had changed, since heavy restrictions were imposed at the start of the pandemic. A Prison Service spokesman said it had taken "immediate action" to address the issues identified in the report. Some inmates in the segregation unit were held in cells without running water or toilets for weeks at a time, the report found. "We are urgently working to identify additional improvements we can make to prisoner safety, and Erlestoke will receive additional staff training and specialist support to help drive down violence," the Prison Service spokesman added. HM Chief Inspector of Prisons, Peter Clarke, said the response to the pandemic at the category C prison, near Devizes in Wiltshire, had "led to a less safe, less decent and less purposeful prison". "Although the amount of time prisoners could spend out of their cells had been increased in the early stages of lockdown, during our visit... most prisoners still only received 45-minute sessions in the morning and the afternoon, and an additional half an hour one evening a week," he said. "Prisoners reported being frustrated about daily delays in the delivery of this limited regime, and about the lack of activity." Other concerns raised included: Mr Clarke said it was "a very troubling visit" with some issues "systemic, arising from the apparent inflexibility of the recovery programme". "Well-led and properly supported local innovation and flexibility are now urgently needed to restore the acceptable treatment and conditions of the prisoners held there," he added. He said he had raised concerns in a letter to Justice Secretary, Robert Buckland, and had received a response which was "in effect" an action plan to address the issues. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.