The boy, who carried messages for the Resistance, died tragically in August 1944, when one of the guerrillas' Sten guns went off by accident. He was honoured on Armistice Day at a ceremony in Aixe-sur-Vienne, near the city of Limoges in central France. His father was a Resistance leader. Eugene Pinte, alias Athos, ran a Resistance network from the remote family farmhouse in La Gaubertie, a hamlet in the Aixe-sur-Vienne area. The boy was a liaison agent, carrying secret messages and letters to surrounding farms. "With his school satchel on his back he didn't raise suspicions," said Marc Pinte, grandson of Marcel's father Eugene. Marcel surprised people with his "astonishing" memory and was trusted to deliver messages to Resistance chiefs, which he hid under his shirt. "He understood everything at once," Marc Pinte told the AFP news agency. He said Marcel was happy to spend time in the woods with Resistance fighters, known as , learning about their clandestine methods. Eugene, his wife Paule and their five children hosted clandestine farmhouse meetings with Resistance fighters and even hid a British paratrooper in the loft, so it was a hive of activity at night. Another relative, Alexandre Bremaud, spent years researching Marcel's story, because the official records focused on the Resistance fighters and sabotage operations, rather than on the many helpers - often women and children - who also took risks to defeat the Nazi occupation. Mr Bremaud told the BBC: "My grandmother described him as an extremely happy, intelligent and brilliant brother, sparkling with mischief". Marcel was eager to play his part in the struggle against Nazi Germany - and he became an agent nicknamed "Quinquin", or "the little kid". Mr Bremaud described how the boy would laugh as the clandestine radio operator, working from the family dining room, would pretend to swallow the cyanide pill he carried. The farmhouse was "a hidden place and very difficult to access," and the guerrillas found it "practical and discreet", Mr Bremaud told AFP. Marcel's role was eventually recognised by the French state. In 1950 he was posthumously awarded the rank of sergeant of the Resistance. Then in 2013 the National Office of Former Combatants and War Victims issued him a posthumous official card for "volunteer combatants of the Resistance". As the Allies pushed down into France from their Normandy beach-head in the summer of 1944 the Resistance stepped up their operations against the Germans. One night Marcel went with a group of to a parachute drop of munitions and other supplies. They had received a code message via the BBC: "The forget-me-not is my favourite flower." The rendezvous was at La Gaubertie and suddenly, as they were waiting, one of the men's Sten guns went off by accident, killing Marcel with several bullets. His death certificate was faked to keep the unit's existence secret. Mr Bremaud says the British paid homage to Marcel by using black canvas parachutes in their next supply drop. It was a note found by Mr Bremaud in the military archives in Vincennes which told Marcel's story, written by a French army officer. The wartime exploits of Marcel's father Eugene were already well known. Marcel was buried in August 1944, just hours before the liberation of Limoges, "in the presence of numerous battalions - the coffin was covered with the tricolour flag," said Marc Pinte. Eugene died in 1951, aged 49, and was buried next to his son in Aixe-sur-Vienne. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.