But the place where the coronavirus outbreak emerged is, in fact, a crowded metropolis with connections to every part of the globe. Estimates vary on the exact size of the population, with local government officials putting the figure at 11 million, though UN data from 2018 says . Either way, the city is around the same size as London, but much bigger than Washington DC. One estimate makes it the , and the seventh biggest in China. And it's the size - and economic clout - of Wuhan that explains why the virus has travelled quickly across Asia, and even to the US. In short, the virus has spread so widely because lots of people visit Wuhan and take the virus home with them. Wuhan international airport handled , and offers direct flights to London, Paris, Dubai, and other cities around the world. The city is built along the Yangtze river and, , it is a "foundation of in both hi-tech manufacturing and traditional manufacturing". It has a series of industrial zones, 52 "institutions of higher learning", and claims more than 700,000 students - including, reportedly, the . Some 230 of the world's 500 biggest companies (as measured by the Fortune Global list) have invested there. There is also notable investment from France - which had a foreign concession in Hankou, in today's Wuhan, between 1886 and 1943. More than 100 French firms have invested in the city and . Wuhan can also serve as a gateway to the Three Gorges - a tourist region and home to a huge hydroelectric dam. So, although the coronavirus originated in a local seafood market, the flow of people in and out of Wuhan has ensured its spread. The US patient, for example, had recently visited Wuhan, as had both Japanese patients. The Korean patient lived there. The case in Thailand is a Chinese tourist from Wuhan. The huge flow of people in and out of Wuhan will only increase as Chinese New Year approaches, and millions of people return home to celebrate. China's National Health Commission said travellers should avoid Wuhan, and that Wuhan residents should not leave the city. But Wuhan's status as one of the biggest - and most connected - places in the world means international cases will almost certainly continue to emerge. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.