Mohamud Mohammed Hassan's family South Wales Police said all relevant CCTV footage and body-worn video had been given to the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC). Footage cannot be released while the IOPC is investigating. to Cardiff Bay police station, holding placards and chanting slogans. The road outside Cardiff Bay police station was blocked for more than an hour. Protester Bianca Ali said: "We can't just sit at home and twiddle our thumbs and wait for an answer from the IOPC. "We need answers now, we want answers now, we want transparency. If we see the footage and the police did not do absolutely anything, then as a community we can have a little bit of closure and move on with the situation. "But until we have have full transparency, and the full facts of the whole case, we're not going to go anywhere." South Wales Police and Crime Commissioner, Alun Michael, confirmed earlier the IOPC would investigate contact between Mr Hassan and police before his death on Saturday evening. The watchdog previously said initial tests showed Mr Hassan, 24, did not die from physical injuries. Toxicology tests are being carried out and it is awaiting the full post-mortem examination results. According to South Wales Police, Mr Hassan was arrested at his home in Newport Road, Roath, on Friday night and taken to Cardiff Bay police station. He was released at 08:30 GMT on Saturday and officers returned to the property at about 22:30 following his death. "I would like to offer my sympathies to Mr Hassan's family and friends and to those members of the community affected by his death and the events at the weekend," said Mr Michael. "We now know that there is no physical trauma injury to explain a cause of death and it is important that we await the outcome of the independent investigation before drawing conclusions about what happened." South Wales Police said its referral to the IOPC was standard practice following a death after police contact. The force said it had found no evidence of excessive force or misconduct. Mr Michael added: "Cameras from the custody unit and body-worn video footage from police officers has all been made available to the IOPC and will help them establish what happened in the hours prior to Mr Hassan's death." The case was raised in the Senedd on Tuesday, where Plaid Cymru's Adam Price said every effort should be made "to seek the truth of what happened". First Minister Mark Drakeford said reports of Mr Hassan's death were "deeply concerning" and must be "properly investigated". On Tuesday, about 300 people took part in a march through Cardiff over Mr Hassan's death, calling for the police force to release CCTV of Mr Hassan's time in custody. Campaigners have pledged to continue with demonstrations. Mr Michael said the independent investigation would be "following the evidence wherever it takes us, without fear or favour". He added: "In the meantime, we need to be patient and allow the investigation to take its course so we can get a full picture of what took place." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.