Health and social care workers were already eligible for testing but the programme has been expanded to cover other critical workers. They include people working in food production, energy supply and supermarket workers. According to , they can apply to be tested at one of four drive-through sites in Scotland. The development emerged as the Scottish government confirmed the deaths of 47 people who had tested positive for the virus, bringing the total to 1,231. They are among more than . Almost 48,000 people have been tested in Scotland, with about 10,000 producing a positive result. Testing is being targeted at people who are self-isolating - because they or a member of their household has symptoms - to enable them to get back to work as quickly as possible. They can apply for a test through a which has been overwhelmed by demand since it launched on Friday. It was initially open only to people in England but tests became available to people in Scotland on Saturday. Tests were already available to health and social care workers through NHS testing facilities. Police officers, prison officers, the fire service, ambulance service and NHS 24 staff have also been able to access testing. They have now been extended to key workers or people in their household with symptoms of the virus. The list of key workers include: The tests are carried out at drive-through sites at Glasgow, Edinburgh and Aberdeen airports and at the University of the Highlands and Islands campus in Inverness. A limited number of home test kits are also available. Eligible employers can register with . People should also be able to use . They will be invited to book an appointment or offered a home testing kit if they are unable to attend a drive-through centre. According to the government guidance, the target for sending out the results by text is 48 hours. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.