Ted Edwards was at his home in Monmouthshire when paramedics were called at about 00:55 GMT on Saturday, the Welsh Ambulance Service confirmed. , leaving his family "really concerned". Aneurin Bevan Health Board said Mr Edwards' wait "is never acceptable". Janine Vaughan Winter, sister-in-law of patient Mr Edwards from Monmouth, said the family were still waiting to find out what time he was admitted. "We are absolutely appalled," said Ms Vaughan Winter, speaking from her home in Herefordshire. "This was a very poorly, man who was going in and out of consciousness, who would've been frightened, he didn't know where he was." She said an ambulance was called for Mr Edwards following suspected sepsis or a stroke. "I think it is absolutely despicable that somebody is left, that poorly, in an ambulance for that length of time. "It's all so upsetting and frustrating," she said. Ms Vaughan Winter added that she was "shocked" that the ambulance crew were tied up for 19 hours. She also said she believed the Grange University Hospital "was opened far too early" and was not ready. Her daughter, Poppy said the family are "distraught, frustrated, and becoming increasingly angry". A spokeswoman for Aneurin Bevan Health Board said: "We would like to apologise to Mr Edwards for his long wait yesterday, this is never acceptable. "It would be inappropriate to comment on individual cases, however, we would urge Mr Edward's family to contact us so that we are able to discuss their concerns." On Saturday, the Welsh Ambulance Service said it was "facing high demand" across the country "with acute pressure" around Grange University Hospital which led to "some long delays with patients on our ambulances". The health board had also said yesterday it was "struggling to identify beds" for patients and confirmed there were "a high number of ambulances waiting outside the hospital". It had already announced it would be halting outpatient appointments and non-urgent planned surgery from Monday. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.