The SDLP leader was responding to the prime minister's pledge to end prosecutions based on what he called "vexatious" allegations. The promise on Thursday. It was welcomed by Justice for Northern Ireland Veterans, which seeks "freedom from historical legacy prosecutions". However there was no detail on how it might apply to those who served in Northern Ireland. "There is nothing vexatious about seeking truth, justice and accountability for those who lost loved ones," said Mr Eastwood. "A uniform should offer no shield to accountability before the law. "Any move in this direction could damage the political progress we have made." A spokesman for Justice for Northern Ireland Veterans group said veterans believed this was "a positive move" and that they "will be carefully watching any proposed legislation". He added: "[We] stand ready to assist the prime minister and government in any way to enact any legislation that will bring justice and peace for our Northern Ireland veterans." The also welcomed the pledge by the prime minister and added that he was looking forward to seeing more detail. The government said it strongly opposed service personnel and veterans being subjected to the "threat of vexatious litigation" in the form of repeated investigations and potential prosecutions arsing from historical operations, in a document published on Thursday. It added that the government will bring forward comprehensive legislation as soon as possible to bring an end to the "unfair pursuit" of the armed forces. The government also pledged to seek the prompt implementation of the Stormont House Agreement to provide reconciliation for victims and great "certainty for military veterans". It also plans to tackle what it calls the "inappropriate application of the Human Rights Act to issues that occurred before it came into force". Sinn Fein Mid Ulster MP Francie Molloy said there could be "no hierarchy of victims". "The British government needs to stop dragging its feet and implement the legacy mechanisms, as agreed by the five main parties and both governments and publicly endorsed in last year's legacy consultation," he said. "Sinn Fein will continue to oppose any attempts to discriminate against any section of victims of the conflict. "British state forces who killed Irish citizens cannot be put above the law." The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.