Mayor Sadiq Khan said the increase of about PS30 a year will be used to help secure free travel for young people and those over 60. Of this PS15 will go to the Met, giving the force an extra PS43m in funding. An additional PS1.59 a year will go to the London Fire Brigade to make changes proposed by the Grenfell Tower Inquiry. Mr Khan's proposal would see an overall increase of 9.5% or PS31.59 a year for an average Band D council tax payer. Since his first budget in 2017-18, Mr Khan has increased Great London Authority's council tax precept by 31%, from PS280 a year to PS363.66 a year for a Band D property. The PS15 congestion charge, which , will remain in force until at least October, City Hall said. The extra income from the charge will be combined with the additional council tax increase to fund the free travel concessions, costing between PS110m and PS130m a year. Free travel for under 18s and those over 60 is currently funded by the government but is due to end in April. A government spokesman said: "This government has repeatedly demonstrated its commitment to supporting London's transport network with more than PS3b in emergency funding support arrangements, but we have always been clear that this support must be fair to UK taxpayers." "I fully recognise that in many households, finances are more stretched than ever before because of the pandemic and this decision is not taken lightly," Mr Khan said. "I promise all Londoners that every penny of this will be put to good and efficient use, keeping our public transport system running and keeping Londoners safe." Shaun Bailey, Conservative rival in the upcoming mayoral election, accused Mr Khan of "choosing to tax hardworking Londoners" rather than eliminating waste and perks at Transport for London. "Over the last four years, Sadiq Khan racked up PS9.56b in waste at Transport for London - leaving TfL unable to afford the services Londoners rely on," he said. "In the middle of a pandemic, he already hiked the congestion charge by 30%, which is a massive hit to the cost of living for Londoners at a time when they can least afford it." Mr Khan's proposed council tax hike is due to be confirmed at a London Assembly meeting in February. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.