Pubs, cafes and restaurants have been and ordered to close at 18:00 GMT as the Welsh Government attempts to curb the rise of coronavirus cases. But cross-border has eased, although travel is not advised. So what are ? The regulations state groups of four people from different households are allowed to meet indoors at pubs, cafes and restaurants but the Welsh Government said people should limit themselves to seeing the However, on Wednesday Wales' chief medical officer Dr Frank Atherton said: "My message on this is really very simple - don't mix with people outside your household between now and Christmas. "Don't mix if you can avoid it". All pubs, restaurants and cafes have to shut at 18:00. They also won't be serving alcoholic drinks and are ordered to close early every day for two weeks until guidance is reviewed on 17 December. Larger groups of people who all live in the same house are allowed to eat out together - but groups of more than four people who are in the same bubble are not allowed in pubs, cafes or restaurants. The rule of four will also apply when meeting people from different households outdoors, away from your home, but meeting anyone from outside your household bubble in someone's garden is not allowed. Two families can form a bubble or an extended household - and they are the only people you're allowed to see inside your home. "To help keep everyone as safe as possible at home, only people from your own household or your extended household can meet at home," said First Minister Mark Drakeford. Indoor organised events are allowed over the winter because the Welsh Government says it would be more difficult to meet outside. Up to 15 people can take part in activities indoors and up to 30 outdoors - providing social distancing, hand hygiene and other Covid safety measures are followed The requirement to work from home whenever possible still remains in Wales, according to the . And as work is considered "essential", people are permitted to travel to England's very high risk tiers, if they cannot work from home. Yes - but there are restrictions if you're heading to the worst affected areas. As cross-border travel rules are relaxed on Friday from 18:00, you can go to - but not to areas under the strictest measures in tier three. It means travel to places like London, Liverpool, Chester, Cheltenham and Bath will be possible within the new rules. However you cannot visit places such as Manchester, Birmingham or Bristol, unless for work, essential childcare or to see your extended household. While pubs in can now open, you . But the Welsh Government is urging people against cross-border travel in an attempt to curb rising coronavirus rates. - levels three and four - is not allowed, much like England's tier three areas, except for essential reasons or seeing people in your extended household. So places like Glasgow, Stirling and Livingston are among the eleven local authority areas with the highest Covid measures. "We are advising people in Wales not to travel into those parts of England and Scotland where the infection rate is lower, to help prevent them taking coronavirus with them," Mr Drakeford has said. "Coronavirus doesn't respect borders - we all have a part to play in keeping Wales and the UK safe. "Please think carefully about where you are going and what you are doing. This virus thrives wherever we come together with others." No. A to help reduce transmission of the virus and Welsh legislations prevents travel. All children can go to school unless they have been asked to stay at home and self-isolate due to a Covid case in their class, bubble or year group. Yes - but only in Wales or to those areas of England and Scotland not in the highest level of restrictions. You can't go abroad. There are a small number of flights from UK airports but for "essential purposes" only, such as work or education. The international travel restrictions will continue and have warned they are likely to remain in place until at least January but "kept under constant review". For those wanting to drive home to see family and friends to celebrate over the festive period, . From 23 to 27 December, people from across the UK will be able to meet. But with numbers limited to three households, some larger families, and those who have relatives who have separated, may face difficult choices when arranging the dinner table. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.