Recep Gultekin was shot in the leg while aiding the woman with his friend, Mikail Ozen. They also carried an injured police officer to safety after a Palestinian man, Osama Joda, gave him first aid. Five people, including an attacker, were killed and another 22 wounded as firing broke out opposite a synagogue in the Austrian capital. The man accused of carrying out the attack was a 20-year-old "Islamist terrorist" who was released early from jail in December, and shot dead by police during the incident. Mr Joda, 23, was working at a nearby McDonalds, and told local newspaper Kurier that he was carrying goods into the restaurant when the attacker began shooting at passers-by. When two police officers came to help, the attacker opened fire on them and one was struck by a bullet. "I pulled him behind the concrete bench and tried to stop the bleeding," said Mr Joda. "There was blood everywhere." The perpetrator fled after more police arrived at the scene, and Mr Joda then helped to drag the officer to a nearby ambulance. He was assisted in this by Mr Ozen and Mr Gultekin, who  are both of Turkish descent. Earlier Mr Gultekin, 21, had carried the injured woman to a restaurant. Mr Ozen, a mixed martial artist and personal trainer, told Kurier that they then noticed the policeman bleeding on the floor after gunfire erupted. "We knew immediately what to do, there was no choice but to help," said the 25-year-old. "Austria is our home. We would help at any time." Police have not confirmed details of the incident, but Interior Minister Karl Nehammer told local media that the officer was taken to safety by Austrians with a migrant background. "No terrorist attack will succeed in tearing up or dividing our society," he added. Turkey's ambassador to Austria, Ozan Ceyhun, also hosted Mr Ozen and Mr Gultekin at the Turkish embassy and praised their conduct. Security has been tight in Vienna as police launched a manhunt for further attackers, and 14 people have been arrested after a series of police raids. But authorities believe the gunman killed by police may have acted alone. Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz said the four who died were an elderly woman, an elderly man, a young male passer-by and a waitress. It was clearly an attack driven by "hatred of our way of life, our democracy", the chancellor said. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the to submit your question or comment or you can email us at . Please include your name, age and location with any submission. The Russian leader says his first call with the new US president was "business-like and frank". 15 sayings from around the world (c) 2021 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites.