No Search Results Found No Search Results Found Terms of Service DMCA Advertise with us Affiliates Media Inquiries About World News Police faced off with curfew-defying crowds in The Hague, Amsterdam, Eindhoven, Enschede, Venlo, Stein, Roermond, Oosterhout, Breda and elsewhere across the nation for the second day in a row on Sunday. At least 190 people, including minors, were detained in alone, where some 1,500 protesters gathered at the central Museum Square, to local media. While most of the demonstrators were peaceful, some sitting on a field with their banners, authorities declared the entire gathering was illegal under the current Covid lockdown rules, and police forcefully dispersed it using water cannons and batons. In , hundreds of protesters clashed with police, pelting fireworks and rocks at officers and police vans, while mounted cops charged the crowd and used tear gas against the demonstrators. Meanwhile, a group of rioters in tried to smash windows at the Medisch Spectrum Twente, forcing the hospital to request additional security. Anti-covid-measure rioters in the Dutch city of Enschede appear to have attacked a hospital. Later in the evening, multiple fires were burning in the streets of , with rioters reportedly setting a police motorcycle ablaze after forcing an officer to flee. Heftig in Den Haag, Hobbemastraat. Rellen in Den Haag.      JUST IN - Violent anti-lockdown protests in several cities in the , protesters set fire to a police motorcycle in The Hague. The mayor of was forced to issue an emergency order, after an unruly mob roamed the streets smashing storefronts, shooting fireworks and throwing stones. Emergency order issued in Venlo. Windows are smashed, fireworks set off and bicycles thrown on the road.  Dutch Royal Military police were deployed to contain the unrest in and . Special police forces are going to  Multiple acts of vandalism were also reported in Authorities in neighboring and both emergency decrees, giving police more power to restore public order. Hier beelden van het moment dat relschoppers zwaar vuurwerk in kinderkledingwinkel New Vulto in gooien. Van Snapchat, via Telegram. Omwonenden hebben doodsangsten uitgestaan.  Previously, following clashes on Saturday night, police arrested 25 people, while 3,600 more were fined for violating the lockdown orders. posted 7 hours ago posted 9 hours ago posted a day ago posted a day ago