No Search Results Found No Search Results Found Terms of Service DMCA Advertise with us Affiliates Media Inquiries About Good News Hunter Biden coordinated introductions between Blinken and his associates, and Blinken was named in an email in connection to a shady prospective deal involving the federal government and Amtrak, a company that previously had Hunter Biden on its board. NATIONAL FILE, which obtained most of the contents of Hunter's laptop, features the most relevant Tony Blinken-Hunter Biden emails below. Will these issues complicate Blinken's bid to become Joe Biden's Secretary of State? Blinken sat for his confirmation hearing, where he counted neocon support including from Lindsey Graham. But Blinken has yet to be confirmed by the Senate. Blinken's nomination heads to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Monday with a confirmation vote this week. Blinken's link to Biden's China dealings is especially concerning. Blinken served as managing director of the Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and Global Engagement, founded in 2018 at the University of Pennsylvania by Joe Biden ahead of his presidential run. National Legal and Policy Center (NLPC) submitted a obtained by NATIONAL FILE highlighting the organization's China funding. "NLPC filed a demanding that the University of Pennsylvania and its Penn Biden Center disclose the identity of $22 million in anonymous Chinese donations since 2017, including a single eye-popping donation of $14.5 million given on May 29, 2018, shortly after the opening of the Biden Center in Washington, DC," NLPC stated. "If Joe Biden and Tony Blinken don't explain their cozy relationship with Communist China through the Biden Center, any FBI background investigation and Senate confirmation hearing must get to the bottom of this secret money connection," NLPC Chairman Peter Flaherty stated. "Not surprisingly, the Penn Biden Center has yet to criticize Communist China for its pandemic coverup for the coronavirus, co-hosting Penn's China Research Symposium earlier this year where the keynote speaker was China's top diplomat in New York. Yet, it has no qualms Hungary and Poland for taking strong efforts to control the spread of the virus as being undemocratic even though US governors have exercised similar emergency powers," NLPC counsel Paul Kamenar stated. posted 12 hours ago posted a day ago posted 4 days ago posted 4 days ago