No Search Results Found No Search Results Found Terms of Service DMCA Advertise with us Affiliates Media Inquiries About Hot News The Twitter co-founder issued the statement following criticism from the governments of France and Germany over the permanent suspension of Trump's account last week. Dorsey said that he did not "celebrate" or "feel pride" in nuking Trump's account "sets a precedent I feel is dangerous: the power an individual or corporation has over a part of the global public conversation." He added that when it comes to overall phenomenon of online censorship and deplatforming "over the long term it will be destructive to the noble purpose and ideals of the open internet." I do not celebrate or feel pride in our having to ban from Twitter, or how we got here. After a clear warning we'd take this action, we made a decision with the best information we had based on threats to physical safety both on and off Twitter. Was this correct? -- jack (@jack) Dorsey is basically admitting that online censorship and social media monopolies are "destructive" of a "noble purpose." In other words, it's evil. Dorsey is admitting the actions of his company were evil, which is pretty odd given that he is supposed to be in control of it. Either Dorsey is openly bragging about engaging in evil, or more likely his statement reads like a cry for help. Speculation has been flying for the best part of two years that Dorsey actually believes in free speech and decentralization (his support for Bitcoin affirms this). Apparently, what Dorsey tells people behind the scenes correlates with claims that his company has been completely hijacked by far-left extremists and he is now totally powerless to stop the takeover. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ In the age of mass Silicon Valley censorship It is crucial that we stay in touch. I need you to sign up for my free newsletter . Support my sponsor - - a supercharged boost of clean energy without the comedown. Also, I urgently need your financial support . ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ posted 17 hours ago posted 6 days ago posted 8 days ago posted 8 days ago