No Search Results Found No Search Results Found Terms of Service DMCA Advertise with us Affiliates Media Inquiries About Health The clip shows officers entering a property in Hornchurch in east London to find 20 people sat round a table which is full of food. There is an archway of pink balloons at one end of the room. "We've had a call because you're all here. Obviously, you're breaking Covid rules," states one of the officers after asking who lives at the address. "We can fine every adult here, every single one of you. PS200 each it is. Because you're breaking the rules," the female cop adds. Metropolitan Police say two men were fined PS200 each and the rest of the guests were told to leave immediately. "This gathering had people of widely different ages and from different households present," said Chief Superintendent Stephen Clayman. "A gathering like this can have tragic consequences for all those involved and risks spreading this terrible virus to our loved ones and the wider community," he added. "Please have no doubt, we are determined to deal robustly with those who breach the Covid regulations in this way." As we , another video showed police entering a home in Scotland after a tip off from a neighbor and arresting family members. If you'd have told people a year ago that cops would have the power to enter homes to fine family members and friends for having a dinner party, they'd have called you insane. Now everyone meekly accepts it, with polls in the UK showing widespread public support for lockdown measures. As we , police are also threatening people with fines if they enjoy winter weather. The UK is currently under its third national lockdown which could run all the way to summer. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ In the age of mass Silicon Valley censorship It is crucial that we stay in touch. I need you to sign up for my free newsletter . Support my sponsor - - a supercharged boost of clean energy without the comedown. Also, I urgently need your financial support . ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ posted 17 hours ago posted a day ago posted 2 days ago posted 3 days ago