No Search Results Found No Search Results Found Terms of Service DMCA Advertise with us Affiliates Media Inquiries About U.S. News There it is -- House impeachment managers deliver article of impeachment against Donald Trump to the Senate, formally triggering a trial. Just three Senate Republicans were present during the formal delivery of the article; Mitch McConnell, Mitt Romney and Roger Marshall. Senators will get sworn in as jurors on Tuesday, according to a previous statement by Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-NY), while both the impeachment managers who will argue the House Democrats' case, and Trump's defense team, will have time to draft and file legal briefs, according to . Ironically, Trump - the only president to be impeached twice by the House - , who told he believed the outcome would be different if Trump had six months left in office - but that . "Biden told CNN he believed the outcome would be different if Trump had six months left in his term, but said he doesn't think 17 Republican senators will vote to convict Trump." Which begs the question if the entire exercise is moot, then why do it as it will only further polarize the already deeply divided US society and certainly not help the "unity" that Biden is allegedly striving to achieve. Trump was charged by the House with incitement of insurrection at the US Capitol on Jan. 6 by, as House Democrats claim, 'falsely claiming that widespread election fraud cost him the 2020 election,' and then encouraging his supporters to show up and challenge the electoral college count. According to the article, Trump "threatened the integrity of the democratic system, interfered with the peaceful transition of power, and imperiled a coequal branch of Government," and "thereby betrayed his trust as President, to the manifest injury of the people of the United States." NEW: GOP Sen. Roger Wicker says he will vote against impeachment. "A second impeachment trial is sure to inflame partisan tensions and could poison the cooperative spirit we need in a 50-50 Senate." South Carolina attorney Butch Bowers will defend Trump during the trial, while the nine House impeachment managers are Democratic Reps.Raskin, Diana DeGette of Colorado, David Cicilline of Rhode Island, Joaquin Castro of Texas, Eric Swalwell and Ted Lieu of California, Stacey Plaskett, the delegate for the U.S. Virgin Islands, Madeleine Dean of Pennsylvania and Joe Neguse of Colorado. (via ). posted 16 hours ago posted 18 hours ago posted 19 hours ago posted 19 hours ago