No Search Results Found No Search Results Found Terms of Service DMCA Advertise with us Affiliates Media Inquiries About World at War First, Syrian state media is alleging a major US build-up and reinforcements sent to "illegitimate bases in Hasakah countryside".The report in Damascus said further that tons of US heavy equipment was observed going toward : "Over the past few days, helicopters affiliated to the so-called international coalition have transported logistical equipment and heavy military vehicles to Conoco oil field in northeastern Deir Ezzor countryside, after turning it into military base to reinforce its presence and loot the Syrian resources," SANA wrote further. This comes at a moment Biden's Syria policy and direction is still largely a big unknown - though it remains that his cabinet - particularly many of  in Libya and Syria upon the start of the so-called 'Arab Spring'. For now President Biden is likely of keeping a contingent of American special forces troops occupying Syria's oil and gas fields. Meanwhile a separate story on the same day as the reported US convoy reinforcements says in an area near where Americans and Turkish patrols are occupying northeast Syria. A Syrian child searching for food in a waste dump, and seen behind him the Syrian oil wells that are under the USA occupation. USA is bringing misery to all of Syria. According to Beirut-based : This is based on Russian military sources featuring footage of a Russian IL-76 cargo landing a Qamishli Airport which is the "second time in ten days that they have brought in more reinforcements and military equipment." Russia has also lately to patrol off Syria's Mediterranean coast, out of the naval base at Tartus. Likely this latest rush to ensure greater Russian 'readiness' is in Washington. However, there's little doubt Biden will keep up the severe sanctions which are currently crushing what's left of the Syrian economy, with civilians bearing the brunt of suffering. Israel also appears to be ramping up its airstrikes inside Syria, claiming to be targeting Iranian positions amid concerns Biden will be "soft" on the Islamic Republic and so-called Iranian influence in Syria and Lebanon. posted a day ago posted a day ago posted 3 days ago posted 5 days ago