No Search Results Found No Search Results Found Terms of Service DMCA Advertise with us Affiliates Media Inquiries About Good News U.S. District Judge Drew Tipton, an appointee of President Donald Trump in the Southern District of Texas, a temporary restraining order on Tuesday blocking Biden's deportation freeze order for 14 days "The January 20 Memorandum not only fails to consider potential policies more limited in scope and time, but it also fails to provide any concrete, reasonable justification for a 100-day pause on deportations," Tipton wrote. BREAKING: Judge Tipton blocks the Biden administration's 100 day deportation moratorium. Big initial loss for the Biden administration as it moves forward with its immigration policies. "It remains unknown why a 100-day pause is needed given the allegedly 'unique circumstances' to which the January 20 Memorandum alludes. Indeed, despite such unique circumstances, DHS did not state or explain why 100 days specifically is needed to accomplish these goals. The silence of the January 20 Memorandum on these questions indicates that the terms provided for in the Memorandum were not a result of 'reasoned decision-making.'" Tipton's ruling comes after Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton requested he block Biden's order because his administration didn't consult with Texas about the deportation moratorium. "Texas has argued that the moratorium will result in mass releases and that the state will consequently have to provide educational, social, welfare, health care, and other services to undocumented immigrants at great cost," Vox . "The state has cited an internal email allegedly sent to ICE officers in Texas on January 21 and obtained by Fox News' Tucker Carlson ordering the officers to 'Release them all, immediately.'" The email reads: "As of midnight tonight, stop all removals. This includes Mexican bus runs, charter flights and commercial removals (until further notice) ... all cases are to be considered [no significant likelihood of removal in foreseeable future]." "Release them all, immediately. No sponsor available is not acceptable any longer," the email added. posted a day ago posted 2 days ago posted 4 days ago posted 5 days ago