No Search Results Found No Search Results Found Terms of Service DMCA Advertise with us Affiliates Media Inquiries About Featured Last Tuesday, "Worst Cooks in America" Season 20 winner Ariel Robinson, 29, and her husband Jerry, 34, were arrested in South Carolina on homicide charges for allegedly beating their adopted daughter Victoria Smith to death. "Arrest warrants allege the couple inflicted 'a series of blunt force injuries' to the child, who died in a South Carolina hospital," according to . We go together like ketchup & MUSTARD!   Being a girl mom is awesome!   Look who's hair is no longer "nappy!!!"  Her edges were laid and curls poppin'!!  Because like she says, "don't worry, mom! you can fix it!" And that's just what mommy does best! [?] My girl was too pretty in her purple at church Wednesday night! [?]  Robinson, a middle school teacher who also branded herself the "Clean Queen of Comedy," won $25,000 after competing on the Food Network's "Worst Cooks in America" reality show. Streaming services that carried the episode in which she competed have already , including Discovery+, Hulu and YouTube, with the Food Network going as far as deleting all mentions of Robinson from their website. Robinson's social media posts, littered with references to Black Lives Matter and White privilege, indicate her political leanings. In one ominous post last August, following the shooting death of 5-year-old , Robinson claimed people would mourn his loss more than a black person's. I don't see how 1 week ppl can be upset about 5 yr old innocent white boy getting murdered then the next week not be upset about an innocent black man being murdered in front of his kids. I thought all lives mattered; why are we not all upset? Wrong is wrong no matter who it is. " She claimed the breach at the capitol was the pinnacle of "White privilege": This is a picture of white privilege in full affect. A black man would have died in the parking lot getting out of his car. SMH. She believed her black sons would grow up being treated differently than her white sons: I will never have to worry about my white sons and that makes me happy. What makes me sad is that every worry I don't have for them will be multiplied for my black sons. Until this is fixed, we are NOT the USA we can be. Justice, fairness, & equality for all!  She also believed all Trump supporters are white supremacists: There's the true Republican Party by definition and policy, and there's the Trump Cult Party a.k.a White Supremacist. There's a big difference. Good republicans still exist. The Republican Party is not all bad. There's some good trying to claw its way out & tear away from Trump. In another post, she admitted she was in line to vote for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. Hey Soror !!!  In line right now to vote you in and VOTE THEM OUT! Time to put a woman in charge & paint the White House pink & green!!  It's also time for common sense, respect, unity, & real leadership in America again. We need it! You got this, sis!  Meanwhile, heartbreaking footage shows Victoria having the sweetest interaction with Robinson, excited to have her hair fixed later. Heartbreaking, RIP. As of yet, mainstream publications such as , and have ignored the story. posted 9 hours ago posted 9 hours ago posted 9 hours ago posted 10 hours ago