No Search Results Found No Search Results Found Terms of Service DMCA Advertise with us Affiliates Media Inquiries About Editors Choice Yes, really. Snow fell in many parts of the country over the weekend, providing a welcome distraction to the fact that the country has been under some form of lockdown for the best part of 10 months. However, this prompted authorities to become even more draconian, urging people not to engage in snowball fights or sledging or face the risk of being fined. "Forces in London, Surrey and Wiltshire sent out warnings urging Brits not to break lockdown while enjoying the snow, saying "Covid regulations still apply," reports . "We are currently receiving lots of calls and reports relating to snowballs being thrown and people outside sledging," tweeted Surrey Police. "Please stay safe and remember that Covid regulations do still apply." Wiltshire Police inspector Louis McCoy was more insistent, tweeting, "I don't want to be dealing with sledgers and snowball fights. There's still a lockdown on. Think about it, don't be tempted." Naturally, drive safe if you have to go out for essentials. Also a note to everyone, I don't want to be dealing with sledgers and snowball fights. There's still a lockdown on. Think about it, don't be tempted. -- Insp Louis McCoy (@WiltspoliceLM) Swindon Police posted a message to Facebook announcing that they were keeping tabs on snowball fights. "We are currently responding to reports of about 150 children and about 50 adults gathering in the Sevenfields area of Swindon and concerns have been raised that they are not abiding by the coronavirus guidelines," said the force. "Please do not gather in large groups - you are reminded that Fixed Penalty Notices may be issued to those who do not abide by the regulations." "We are in the midst of a pandemic and failing to socially distance and wear face masks could aid the spread of the virus." Meanwhile, Kingston Police urged people not to go out and enjoy the snow at all, tweeting that they should only look at it "from the comfort of your own home" as "there's a pandemic going on." It's so beautiful to watch the snow fall from the comfort of your own home.  Plus there's a pandemic going on. in the by playing in the back garden! (Also drive carefully if you are allowed).  -- Kingston Police | #StayHome (@MPSKingston) Four men traveling in a car in Guildford were also hit with PS200 fines each after they told police they were "looking at the snow." As we , engaging with snow is seen by authorities as a dangerous contravention of lockdown rules. West Mercia Police attracted ridicule when the force angrily tweeted about "2 reports of snowballs being thrown" in violation of coronavirus lockdown rules. A large snowball fight in a park in Leeds also attracted media condemnation despite students involved claiming they were just trying to blow off some steam to combat mental health problems caused by lockdown. Avon and Somerset Police also fined someone for eating a kebab in their car alone while Derbyshire Police interrogated two women for drinking coffee while on a rural walk. The UK remains under total lockdown with powers recently extended until July, meaning the country could still be under such restrictions until the summer. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ In the age of mass Silicon Valley censorship It is crucial that we stay in touch. I need you to sign up for my free newsletter . Support my sponsor - - a supercharged boost of clean energy without the comedown. Also, I urgently need your financial support . ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ posted 11 hours ago posted a day ago posted 2 days ago posted 4 days ago