No Search Results Found No Search Results Found Terms of Service DMCA Advertise with us Affiliates Media Inquiries About Featured According to , "The preteen brothers joined the choir at Precious Blood Catholic Church and said they were drawn to a young, charismatic seminarian who directed their musical performances and took them out for pizza." The men, who are now in their 60s, both reside in Texas. Neither of the brothers knew the other was also molested until the youngest of the two filed a complaint on Jan. 4 to the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Chicago. Pfleger stepped down from his position the day after the complaint was filed. The men sat down with for a 3-hour interview on Friday. The older brother, a 63-year-old former police sergeant and U.S. Air Force veteran, was clearly choked up when he described the helplessness of the situation as a child, saying, "You lay there and you hold your breath and hope for the best." The allegations are making shockwaves around the nation as Pfleger was the leader of Chicago's largest black Catholic parish and was a close friend to former President Barack Obama. , Obama said, "Father Michael Pfleger is a dear friend, and somebody I interact with closely." Pfleger even appeared on Obama's faith endorsements page. , which has been scrubbed from internet archive sites, detailed the close nature of Pfleger and Obam'a relationship. Pfleger also has a public record of associating with radicals like Reverend Jeremiah Wright and Minister Louis Farrakhan. Obama made sure his buddy benefited from his time in office. stated, "One of those long-time supporters was Rev. Michael Pfleger, the politically active leader of St. Sabina Church. He gave Obama's campaign $1,500 between 1995 and 2001, including $200 in April 2001, about three months after Obama announced $225,000 in grants to St. Sabina programs." Barack was forced to in 2008 after the priest made racially-charged comments about Hillary Clinton at Obama's church. Perhaps Pfleger and Obama had a sexual relationship as well because rumors of the former president's homosexuality have been floated for decades. In fact, a man named Larry Sinclair famously accused Barack Obama of using and selling cocaine, carrying on homosexual relationships and even murdering one of his male lovers named Donald Young. Interestingly, Young was both Pfleger and Rev. Jeremiah Wright preached at. posted 9 hours ago posted 9 hours ago posted 9 hours ago posted 10 hours ago