No Search Results Found No Search Results Found Terms of Service DMCA Advertise with us Affiliates Media Inquiries About Occult & Globalists NEW: Apollo CEO/chairman/billionaire Leon Black paid Jeffrey Epstein $150 million over five years  -- nearly three times as much as  previously known.  But he will remain chairman of the board. By @mattgoldtein26 and me Leslie Wexner was sex criminal Jeffrey Epstein's benefactor until about 2007. In the years after, Leon Black stepped in, paying Epstein at least  $150 million in fees for financial services the some say had  a market value of about $5 million. From : The founders of Apollo Global Management, one of the world's biggest private equity firms, engaged in a brief power struggle this weekend over control of the firm, a rift that opened up after an inquiry revealed that one founder -- Apollo's chief executive and chairman, Leon Black -- had paid more than $150 million to the convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein. On Monday, Mr. Black announced his plan to step down as chief executive this year. "I have advised the Apollo board that I will retire as C.E.O. on or before my 70th birthday in July and remain as chairman," he said in a statement. The review -- ordered by the firm's board at Mr. Black's behest in October, after The New York Times detailed at least $75 million in payments -- found that Mr. Black had paid Mr. Epstein $158 million in a five-year period ending in 2017. He had also lent Mr. Epstein more than $30 million, only $10 million of which was paid back, the report found. Mr. Black's payments effectively bankrolled the lifestyle of Mr. Epstein -- whom Mr. Black viewed as a "confirmed bachelor with eclectic tastes," according to the report -- in the years after his 2008 guilty plea in Florida to a prostitution charge involving a teenage girl. Les Wexner admitted in January 2020 that (Wexner, after being exposed as Epstein's money man, released a ridiculous story claiming Epstein "misappropriated vast sums" of his money and said $46 million that Epstein donated to Wexner's wife's foundation represented only a "portion" of the funds he took). Wexner also appears to have given Epstein tens of millions worth of property and let him use his properties for free. Victoria's Secret mogul Les Wexner let former friend Jeffrey Epstein abuse girls at his mansion "The bombshell allegations are part of a shareholder lawsuit brought against senior leadership at L Brands..." Epstein's estate is and Wexner and Black appear to be his biggest sources of funding. the former Prime Minister of Israel and the head of Israeli Military Intelligence. Barak also reportedly regularly visited Epstein's other apartment building in New York where underage girls say they were trafficked. EXCLUSIVE: Married Israeli politician Ehud Barak is seen hiding his face entering Jeffrey Epstein's NYC townhouse as bevy of young beauties were also spotted going into mansion - despite his claim he NEVER socialized with the pedophile and his girls Both Wexner and Black are known for their commitment to and . Epstein's alleged madam/handler, Ghislaine Maxwell, is the daughter of alleged Mossad agent Robert Maxwell, who has been Former Israeli spy Ari Ben-Menashe . Vanity Fair reported in July 2019 posted a day ago posted a day ago posted 2 days ago posted 5 days ago