No Search Results Found No Search Results Found Terms of Service DMCA Advertise with us Affiliates Media Inquiries About Opinions One of Biden's executive orders imposes mask and social distancing mandates on anyone in a federal building or on federal land. The mandates also apply to federal employees when they are "on-duty" anywhere. Members of the military are included in the definition of federal employees. Will citizens of Afghanistan, Iraq, and other countries where US troops are or will be "spreading democracy" be happy to learn the troops shooting up their towns are wearing masks and practicing social distancing? Another one of Biden's executive orders forces passengers on airplanes, trains, and other public transportation to wear masks. Biden's mask mandates contradict his pledge to follow the science. Studies have not established that masks are effective at preventing the spread of coronavirus. Regularly wearing a mask, though, can cause health problems. Biden's mask mandates are also an unconstitutional power grab. Some say these mandates are an exercise of the federal government's constitutional authority to regulate interstate commerce. However, the Constitution gives Congress, not the president, the power to regulate interstate commerce. The president does not have the authority to issue executive orders regulating interstate commerce absent authorization by a valid law passed by Congress. The Founders gave Congress sole law-making authority, and they would be horrified by the modern practice of presidents creating law with a "stroke of a pen." Just as important, the Commerce Clause was not intended to give the federal government vast regulatory power. Far from giving the US government powers such as the power to require people to wear masks, the Commerce Clause was simply intended to ensure Congress could protect free trade among the states. Biden also signed an executive order supporting using the Defense Production Act to increase the supply of vaccines, testing supplies, and other items deemed essential to respond to coronavirus. The Defense Production Act is a Cold War relic that gives the president what can fairly be called dictatorial authority to order private businesses to alter their production plans, and violate existing contracts with private customers, in order to produce goods for the government. Mask and social distancing mandates, government control of private industry, and some of Biden's other executive actions, such as one creating a new "Public Health Jobs Corps" with responsibilities including performing "contact tracing" on American citizens, are the type of actions one would expect from a fascist government, not a constitutional republic. Joe Biden, who is heralded by many of his supporters as saving democracy from fascist Trump, could not even wait one day before beginning to implement fascistic measures that are completely unnecessary to protect public health. Biden will no doubt use other manufactured crises, including "climate change" and "domestic terrorism," to expand government power and further restrict our liberty. Under Biden, fascism will not just carry an American flag. It will also wear a mask. posted 19 hours ago posted 2 days ago posted 2 days ago posted 2 days ago