No Search Results Found No Search Results Found Terms of Service DMCA Advertise with us Affiliates Media Inquiries About Crime Wave The Democrat Party Of Oregon released a that doesn't even mention left wing violence or Antifa, but instead infers that Republicans are to blame. "This is not the first time our building has been vandalized during the past year, and none of the prior incidents have deterred us from our important work to elect Democrats up and down the ballot," the statement says, adding "This incident will be no different." After asking for donations and help to fix up the building, the statement adds "There is still so much to be done, but we at the Democratic Party of Oregon are resolute and determined to do everything in our power to support the Biden/Harris administration, and to help Oregon and America recover from the pandemic stronger than before." The statement then claims that "Years of relentless Republican attacks on our Democratic values and the very foundations of our democracy have not stopped our work, and neither will this senseless vandalism. We are undeterred." Once again, take a look at these 'Republicans' attacking the Democratic building: Significant damage at the Democratic Party of Oregon bldg at 9th & Everett Sound of breaking glass at what appear to be democratic offices at 9th & Everett Inauguration Day in Portland. A group of about 100 people dressed in black march thru Southeast Portland Portland: Watch shocking footage of smashing up the Democratic Party of Oregon headquarters. They bring weapons while their comrades use umbrellas to block surveillance video. Video by .  The Democratic Party Of Oregon building was vandalized moments go by an Antifa group in Portland Oregon. The group gathered at Revolution Hall and blocked roads off as they made their way towards the building Antifa leaving a note for Biden at the DNC office in Portland. Anti-Biden Antifa attack Portland police officers, forcing cops to retreat Federal officers came out of the ICE facility in Portland to disperse the crowd that had assembled outside. After declaring it to be an unlawful assembly, police used tear gas and flashbangs. Footage of nighttime clashes between BLM / Antifa and police in , US. posted 10 days ago posted 11 days ago posted 17 days ago posted 25 days ago