WILLIAMSPORT, PA--Informing the judge that he had definitive proof of voter fraud against Donald Trump, Rudy Giuliani  reportedly announced Thursday in court "Your honor, I'm ready to present" as he pulled a rotted melon and a stray cat out of an old burlap sack. "Give me a second and I'll show you hard evidence that there are hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of mail-ballot irregularities, it's somewhere in here under all these pizzas and teeth," said the president's lawyer, rummaging through a large, stained canvas bag, discarding multiple grease-coated catalogs , dozens of half-eaten chicken tenders, and a mason jar containing a murky brown liquid, then holding up what he believed to be damning reports that turned out to be a soaking-wet tarp. "Hang on, your honor. As you'll soon see, there are all kinds of testimonies and other documents proving definitively that officials knowingly engaged in--no, not this, how did this bath towel get in here? Whose bath towel is this? Objection! Now listen, judge your honor, it's as clear as the evidence that I've written on the back of these cheeseburger wrappers, which if the ketchup writing wasn't so smeared would clearly evidence fraud to the jury. No matter, though, because I'm smart and I made careful backup ketc hup copies of the fraud on some gloves, which are legally admissible in court, as soon as I find them. Just a moment. Now where are my potato peels? Sirs of the jury, I submit here for legal questioning and subsequent arrest and execution whichever culprit took my potato peels. I have probable cause! Those are top-secret pieces of information that have client-attorney permission. Do not look at the potato peels! If the potato peels have been stolen, well that's witness tampering right there, which means that Trump's case is automatically won on the grounds of appellate dismissal. That's all very legal. But first I submit these hockey pucks, and if you ignore the bite marks, it's unmistakable that they--wait, excuse me, these are the wrong hockey pucks. Objection! The election is a fraud and I have the plastic bags of wet leaves to prove it!" At press time, Giuliani had confidently stated "No further questions, I rest my case" and sat chewing the melon rinds, spitting the seeds onto the prosecution's table.