On Monday, and reports revealed that Joe Biden will be attending the first presidential debate Tuesday night with an earpiece hidden in his auditory canal and methamphetamine screaming through his blood. These revelations -- which are not baseless conspiracies fomented by the Trump campaign in a last-ditch effort to prepare its supporters for the vast disparity between Joe Biden is like (a man suffering from late-stage dementia) and what he is actually like (an old man who sometimes misspeaks but remains competent at retail politics) -- helped spur a new round of reporting on the Democratic nominee's debate preparations Tuesday afternoon. First, journalist Todd Starnes of The Starnes Media Group (no relation), reported that the Iowa radio station KXEL had itself reported that the "word on the street" was that Joe Biden "got tonight's debate questions in advance." Word on the street is that got tonight's debate questions in advance - per As of this writing, it is not clear which street in Eastern Iowa KXEL heard this word on. But in the journalism business, few have more credibility than Todd Starnes, who worked his way up from the ground-floor of Starnes Media Group -- overcoming unfounded suspicions of nepotism at every turn -- to become the company's first-ever president with the surname Starnes, making him an inspiration to Starneses the world-over, few of whom ever thought they'd live to see the day that Starnes Media Group was led by a natural-born Starnes. Now, has learned that Biden will not only enter tonight's debate with the benefit of an earpiece and advance knowledge of Chris Wallace's questions -- but also, with a next generation version of Amazon's Alexa neurally implanted in his cerebral cortex. A source who wished to remain anonymous said that, according to a Biden family member's college roommate's golfing buddy's Facebook post, the super-intelligent microchip can feed perfect answers directly into the Democratic nominee's consciousness. Thus, the source explained, should Biden fall short of complete oratorical perfection at any point in Tuesday night's proceedings, viewers should interpret this as proof that the Democratic nominee is essentially brain-dead, his cognitive faculties too fried to so much as faithfully echo the immaculate zingers of his in-built AI. Tellingly, Biden has refused to consent to a pre-debate brain scan to prove that there is no tiny homunculus lodged behind his eyes. Meanwhile, a separate insider told that a Kamala Harris confidante's son's stalker's Pinterest comment revealed Tuesday that Biden had his larynx removed late last week, and replaced with a perfect clone of Morgan Freeman's -- an operation that will cause the former vice president's voice to sound at least three times as sonorous tonight as it is in reality. The insider further said that, according to a 4chan poster with knowledge of the situation, the Biden campaign abducted actor Cillian Murphy on Monday morning and gouged out his eyes, so as to replace their candidate's dull peepers with the Irish thespian's bright blue gems. Finally, according to Benny Johnson of Turning Point USA, in a last-minute procedure at Walter Reed Medical Center this afternoon, Biden had both of his arms sawed off and replaced with M20B1 "Super Bazookas." Republican operatives say that Biden's myriad performance-enhancing alterations raise serious questions about the nature of the self. "Consider the following thought experiment," Topher Speedboat of Herrenvolk Strategies said Tuesday. "Imagine that the famous ship sailed by the Greek hero Theseus was kept in a harbor as a kind of museum -- and that, as the decades passed, and some of the ship's wooden parts began to rot, they were replaced by new ones until, after a century's time, every single part of the ship had been replaced. Can we say that this vessel is still the Ship of Theseus? If not, at what point did it cease to be that ship?" Such questions may be impossible to answer. But one thing is certain: To the extent that Joe Biden comes across as less than completely senile Tuesday night, you should assume that this is because the Trump campaign willfully misled you about the candidate's capacities, but simply because the Democratic nominee is a cyborg death machine with Cillian Murphy's eyes. Not good news, particularly with the Democratic majority hanging by a thread Well, that would be nice A sign of where this trial is going You can stop fiddling with your router - it's not just you People across the East Coast were having trouble accessing core Internet services Tuesday morning, just as they were logging on for work and school. Users reported trouble loading Gmail, Slack and Zoom -- apps that have become necessities to keep work-from-home life running smoothly during the pandemic. Downdetector, which tracks reports of outages, showed widespread issues with Verizon, Google, Zoom, YouTube, Slack, Amazon Web Services and others Tuesday just before noon. On Twitter, which many still were able to access, people reported they were seeing issues with their Verizon Fios Internet service. Verizon's customer support team said on Twitter Tuesday that a fiber had been cut in Brooklyn, which could possibly account for some of the issues. The support account on Twitter quickly became inundated with customers asking why their internet was slow and bumpy. It was not immediately clear what was causing the outages, though many people pointed to issues with their Verizon Fios service. Amazon Web Services' status page showed its service, which provides computing power to large swaths of the Internet, was experiencing an issue with an external provider. On its status page, it said that it is "investigating connectivity issues with an internet provider, mainly affecting the East Coast of the United States, outside of the AWS Network." Slack said there were no issues with its own service. Now that McConnell has caved on the filibuster, we should see a Senate power-sharing agreement later this week Senator Mitch McConnell on Monday dropped his demand that the new Democratic Senate majority promise to preserve the filibuster -- which Republicans could use to obstruct President Biden's agenda -- ending an impasse that had prevented Democrats from assuming full power even after their election wins. In his negotiations with Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the new majority leader, Mr. McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, had refused to agree to a plan for organizing the chamber without a pledge from Democrats to protect the filibuster, a condition that Mr. Schumer had rejected. But late Monday, as the stalemate persisted, Mr. McConnell found a way out by pointing to statements by two centrist Democrats, Senators Joe Manchin III of West Virginia and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, that said they opposed getting rid of the procedural tool -- a position they had held for months -- as enough of a guarantee to move forward without a formal promise from Mr. Schumer. "With these assurances, I look forward to moving ahead with a power-sharing agreement modeled on that precedent," Mr. McConnell said in a statement. Democrats had been anticipating a capitulation by Mr. McConnell and said they believed he had overreached in the negotiation. Yellen's got the votes The good vaccine news keeps on coming Not news Senate Republicans wanted to hear Merck is shutting down its COVID vaccine program after lackluster results Merck said Monday that it is halting development of its two experimental Covid-19 vaccines, after early clinical-trial data showed the shots generated disappointing immune responses against the virus. Early-stage studies of the vaccines indicated they produced inferior immune responses in subjects given the shots compared with people who survived Covid-19 or took authorized Covid-19 vaccines, the company said. The exit removes a major vaccine player from the constellation of firms seeking shots to curb the spread of the virus, as the few companies that have been able to bring shots to market struggle to meet heavy demand.