Thanks for contacting us. We've received your submission.   By      November 10, 2020 2:45pm   If Joy Reid were your architect, the bedroom ceiling would fall on your head the first time the wind blew. If Joy Reid were your plumber, the contents of your toilet would come spewing out your shower head. If Joy Reid were a pilot, a firefighter, or a police officer, we would no longer be discussing her, except in the past tense. But! Joy Reid is a television pundit, albeit one who toils for the hysterical conspiracy-theory factory known as MSNBC, and hence can never suffer any penalty for being factually inept: Hey, it's only somebody talking. Did you make the mistake of assuming MSNBC was about accuracy? Late Monday, the Wrongest Woman on Television , in the course of arguing (correctly) that recounts are extremely unlikely to change the outcome of last week's presidential election, that "the reason there's a thing called @FiveThirtyEight is because 538 was the margin in FL when the Republican SCOTUS reversed the 2000 election during a recount, making Dubya the president." Bzzt. Wrong. Gong sound. Let the mighty all-negating Foot of Monty Python come down from the heavens and squash this tweet onto oblivion. We award Joy Reid no points, and may God have mercy on her soul. The Supreme Court didn't reverse the 2000 election and is, famously, named not after George W. Bush's margin of victory in Florida in 2000 (which was 537) but after the number of votes in the Electoral College. This was hardly the first foray into the realm of fantasy on the part of Reid, a proud product of Harvard University. After notoriously anti-Semitic Iranian leader Mahmoud Ahmadinejad suggested moving Israel to Europe, Reid wrote, in 2006, "I hate to admit that Mr. Amadinejad [sic] has a point." Reid also led her readers down the rabbit hole of , superimposed John McCain's face over the photo of a mass murderer at Virginia Tech and, after a homophobic old blog post of hers resurfaced two years ago, ludicrously claimed the offending language had been . When the internet archive the Wayback Machine showed the post wasn't hacked, except possibly by a time traveler, she claimed the Wayback Machine had also been hacked, and also that the FBI was investigating. The FBI has not been investigating because even Reid isn't dumb enough to lie to a federal agent. After 13 hours of being ridiculed, Reid finally corrected her jaw-dropper of a tweet about the source of fivethirtyeight.com's name. If MSNBC were capable of shame, it would announce that Reid has been suspended and told not to come back to work until she is up to speed on basic civics. But then again, Reid's balderdash is in harmony with MSNBC's brand: Just think of the network as Mostly Stupid but Nobody Cares.     Share Selection