Twelve days out from judgment day in an election in which he , President Trump continues to hammer home an issue that will surely resonate with that small slice of still-undecided voters: his supposedly unfair treatment at the hands of CBS's Lesley Stahl. After two days of promising to release unedited footage of an as-yet-unaired interview, during which he walked out prematurely because he was upset with Stahl's line of questioning, the president finally followed through on Thursday. Near the beginning of the 37-minute clip, Stahl sets some expectations for the interview that Trump isn't thrilled with: How the raw 60 Minutes tape posted by Trump begins: Stahl: You ready for tough questions? Trump: Just be fair. Stahl: Last time you were like bring it on. Trump: "No, I'm not looking for that." Stahl: "...But you're OK with some tough questions?" Trump: "No, I'm not." Throughout the interview, Stahl presses Trump on issues from health care (the he hopes the Supreme Court strikes down Obamacare, a politically toxic position) to his derogatory comments about Anthony Fauci (Trump ) to his that the Obama campaign spied on him. The tone is of an adversarial back-and-forth, well within normal journalistic bounds. Nevertheless, Trump continuously claims that Joe Biden hasn't been given similar treatment by CBS and cuts the proceedings short. Raw footage: Trump walks out of interview after complaining that Lesley Stahl's questions were too tough for him In a statement, CBS News said, "The White House's unprecedented decision to disregard their agreement with CBS News and release their footage will not deter from providing its full, fair and contextual reporting which presidents have participated in for decades." A White House staffer had previously , "It wasn't a bad interview. She just had a tone he didn't like." (This is from Trump.) On Tuesday, a stewing Trump to publish video from the encounter before its airdate so that his supporters can get a "glimpse of what a FAKE and BIASED interview" he had to sit through. "You have to watch what we do to ,"  he later told a Pennsylvania rally crowd. "You'll get such a kick of it. You're gonna get a kick out of it. Lesley Stahl is not gonna be happy." He also posted a of Stahl, who was hospitalized this summer with COVID-19, in the White House without a mask on. Though his campaign attacked the journalist for not wearing a face covering in a White House known for its avoidance of PPE, CNN that the video showed "Stahl with her producers immediately after Trump ended the interview" and before she had time "to get her personal belongings to put her mask back on." On Wednesday morning, with time running out for Trump to alter a race he has been losing for its entirety, the president's chief of staff was spending at least some of his time on ... this. "We have tape of every single minute," Trump chief of staff says of the "60 Minutes" interview. He says "came across more like an opinion journalist than a real reporter." Meadows: "I've looked at every single minute of the interview and then some." Joe Biden's team will surely be happy if Trump's tantrum extends to day four. Not good news, particularly with the Democratic majority hanging by a thread Well, that would be nice A sign of where this trial is going You can stop fiddling with your router - it's not just you People across the East Coast were having trouble accessing core Internet services Tuesday morning, just as they were logging on for work and school. Users reported trouble loading Gmail, Slack and Zoom -- apps that have become necessities to keep work-from-home life running smoothly during the pandemic. Downdetector, which tracks reports of outages, showed widespread issues with Verizon, Google, Zoom, YouTube, Slack, Amazon Web Services and others Tuesday just before noon. On Twitter, which many still were able to access, people reported they were seeing issues with their Verizon Fios Internet service. Verizon's customer support team said on Twitter Tuesday that a fiber had been cut in Brooklyn, which could possibly account for some of the issues. The support account on Twitter quickly became inundated with customers asking why their internet was slow and bumpy. It was not immediately clear what was causing the outages, though many people pointed to issues with their Verizon Fios service. Amazon Web Services' status page showed its service, which provides computing power to large swaths of the Internet, was experiencing an issue with an external provider. On its status page, it said that it is "investigating connectivity issues with an internet provider, mainly affecting the East Coast of the United States, outside of the AWS Network." Slack said there were no issues with its own service. Now that McConnell has caved on the filibuster, we should see a Senate power-sharing agreement later this week Senator Mitch McConnell on Monday dropped his demand that the new Democratic Senate majority promise to preserve the filibuster -- which Republicans could use to obstruct President Biden's agenda -- ending an impasse that had prevented Democrats from assuming full power even after their election wins. In his negotiations with Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the new majority leader, Mr. McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, had refused to agree to a plan for organizing the chamber without a pledge from Democrats to protect the filibuster, a condition that Mr. Schumer had rejected. But late Monday, as the stalemate persisted, Mr. McConnell found a way out by pointing to statements by two centrist Democrats, Senators Joe Manchin III of West Virginia and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, that said they opposed getting rid of the procedural tool -- a position they had held for months -- as enough of a guarantee to move forward without a formal promise from Mr. Schumer. "With these assurances, I look forward to moving ahead with a power-sharing agreement modeled on that precedent," Mr. McConnell said in a statement. Democrats had been anticipating a capitulation by Mr. McConnell and said they believed he had overreached in the negotiation. Yellen's got the votes The good vaccine news keeps on coming Not news Senate Republicans wanted to hear Merck is shutting down its COVID vaccine program after lackluster results Merck said Monday that it is halting development of its two experimental Covid-19 vaccines, after early clinical-trial data showed the shots generated disappointing immune responses against the virus. Early-stage studies of the vaccines indicated they produced inferior immune responses in subjects given the shots compared with people who survived Covid-19 or took authorized Covid-19 vaccines, the company said. The exit removes a major vaccine player from the constellation of firms seeking shots to curb the spread of the virus, as the few companies that have been able to bring shots to market struggle to meet heavy demand.