You may recall that a bunch of Oberlin students, hopped up on the most noxious forms of activism wafting over the nation's elite colleges, recently flew off the handle over banh mi, of all things. They absolutely . It was insane. That, at least, is the story line that has set in among the sorts of people who follow campus social-justice controversies: Up until a few days ago, if you'd searched "Oberlin banh mi" on Google or Twitter, you would have gotten a steady stream of stern denunciations of those ridiculous college students. But on Friday, about what really happened during banhmigate (sandwichghazi?). It turns out that almost the aspects of the story that caused it to go viral are unfounded or exaggerated. It's an informative case study in how the internet's outrage economy works and in how fast outrage content can travel before the truth even has a chance to leave the starting gate. The story is behind a paywall, but here's a brief summary: The whole thing started when "a Vietnamese student [named Clover Linh Tran] told Ferdinand Protzman, the lecturer teaching a newswriting course in the fall of 2015, that some international students had concerns about food in the cafeteria being passed off as authentic when it fell far short." Protzman, now the college's chief of staff, was initially skeptical, but the more he learned, the more convinced he became that there was a potentially interesting campus story worth reporting on here. "The banh mi wasn't just inauthentic -- it didn't even resemble banh mi. Instead of grilled pork, pate, pickled vegetables, and fresh herbs, the sandwich used ciabatta bread, pulled pork, and coleslaw, according to the student," writes Patel. "And the 'chicken sushi,' Protzman said, was just chicken loaf draped over a little mound of bad rice." So Protzman did what any competent journalism teacher would do and encouraged Tran to look into the issue -- dining-hall complaints are, after all, exactly the sort of thing student journalists are supposed to report on. Tran interviewed the complainants and Campus Dining Services (the employees of which were unaware that their, uh, creations had caused any controversy), and her reporting culminated in an article in with the headline The article is under 700 words long, and while it probably uses and its variants a bit too loosely -- we are talking about a liberal-arts campus in the 21st century -- the bulk of the reporting centers on international students who came across versions of their native cuisines that they found completely unrecognizable, which doesn't seem like a ridiculous complaint. The appropriation talk itself doesn't come across as particularly overheated. One student is even paraphrased as saying, rather thoughtfully, that "the dining service's food selections are a reflection of cultural collision, not cultural appropriation." The article mentions the possibility of a meeting to allow students to air their concerns to CDS; , from December 4, reports on that meeting and notes that everyone seemed to walk away from them happy. "Representatives from both sides reached a middle ground when CDS delegates agreed to try improving the naming process of meals by not associating excessively modified dishes with specific cultures," . "CDS delegates added that they will focus on correcting dishes to make them more culturally accurate, specifically Dascomb Dining Hall's sushi bar. Students also suggested that student associations and CDS collaborate on creating a list of menu items." It doesn't appear that at any point there was any actual -- there were a handful of student complaints and a meeting in which everyone felt heard, and that was that. "That's when the professional journalists got involved," Patel notes wryly in the . Six weeks later, the New York ran an article headlined That appears to be the point at which the "banh mi protesters" meme was truly birthed. The article mentions a protest by the black student union outside the Afrikan Heritage House dorm. That protest did occur, though -- as is the wont of radical activists -- the students' complaints and demands covered a wide range, from the quality of the food to "a guaranteed 40-hour work week, benefits for part-time workers, personal days, funding for job training, and increased wages" for cafeteria staff. But it was separate from the banh mi and sushi complaints, and unless you read the article very closely, that isn't quite clear. From there, a number of articles all did more or less the same thing, mixing up the actual protest with the much, much lower-temperature complaints over the Asian food. As Patel writes: followed up two days after the with its own take, headlined "Oberlin College Students Protest 'Culturally Appropriative' Dining Hall Food." Two days after that, the New York weighed in with "Oberlin Students Take Culture War to the Dining Hall," with "A Food Fight at Oberlin College," and the Washington with "Oberlin College Sushi 'Disrespectful' to Japanese." It crossed an ocean and [got] into Britain's : "U.S. University Accused of Cultural Appropriation Over 'Undercooked' Sushi Rice." Even prospective college students -- an all-important demographic for Oberlin -- could read about the incident at in an article titled "These College Students Claim Their Cafeteria Food Is Racist." When you evaluate what actually happened -- a few students complained about exactly the sort of thing students have every right to complain about, those complaints were reported on by a student reporter doing exactly what student reporters do, and everyone involved had a meeting at which everything was resolved without any sort of actual drama -- it's baffling that this became a national story and a three-word ("banh mi protest") punchline. But the simple, rather transparent incentives and forces of the outrage economy, which center around hate-clicks and -shares, inflated a minor campus story to ridiculous proportions. Naturally, those clicks and shares are easiest to generate when a story slots neatly into a preexisting trope -- in this case, the coddled, overprotected American college student -- or can be shaped so that it seems to. No matter that it doesn't appear there was any actual -- just civil discussion -- over the banh mi or the sushi and that the kids who complained were international students intimately familiar with the cuisine in question, rather than, well, supposedly triggered American "snowflakes." People click on stuff that reinforces what they already know, and algorithms make sure such content is rewarded. It's a big part of the reason everything feels so stupid right now. Not good news, particularly with the Democratic majority hanging by a thread Well, that would be nice A sign of where this trial is going You can stop fiddling with your router - it's not just you People across the East Coast were having trouble accessing core Internet services Tuesday morning, just as they were logging on for work and school. Users reported trouble loading Gmail, Slack and Zoom -- apps that have become necessities to keep work-from-home life running smoothly during the pandemic. Downdetector, which tracks reports of outages, showed widespread issues with Verizon, Google, Zoom, YouTube, Slack, Amazon Web Services and others Tuesday just before noon. On Twitter, which many still were able to access, people reported they were seeing issues with their Verizon Fios Internet service. Verizon's customer support team said on Twitter Tuesday that a fiber had been cut in Brooklyn, which could possibly account for some of the issues. The support account on Twitter quickly became inundated with customers asking why their internet was slow and bumpy. It was not immediately clear what was causing the outages, though many people pointed to issues with their Verizon Fios service. Amazon Web Services' status page showed its service, which provides computing power to large swaths of the Internet, was experiencing an issue with an external provider. On its status page, it said that it is "investigating connectivity issues with an internet provider, mainly affecting the East Coast of the United States, outside of the AWS Network." Slack said there were no issues with its own service. Now that McConnell has caved on the filibuster, we should see a Senate power-sharing agreement later this week Senator Mitch McConnell on Monday dropped his demand that the new Democratic Senate majority promise to preserve the filibuster -- which Republicans could use to obstruct President Biden's agenda -- ending an impasse that had prevented Democrats from assuming full power even after their election wins. In his negotiations with Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the new majority leader, Mr. McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, had refused to agree to a plan for organizing the chamber without a pledge from Democrats to protect the filibuster, a condition that Mr. Schumer had rejected. But late Monday, as the stalemate persisted, Mr. McConnell found a way out by pointing to statements by two centrist Democrats, Senators Joe Manchin III of West Virginia and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, that said they opposed getting rid of the procedural tool -- a position they had held for months -- as enough of a guarantee to move forward without a formal promise from Mr. Schumer. "With these assurances, I look forward to moving ahead with a power-sharing agreement modeled on that precedent," Mr. McConnell said in a statement. Democrats had been anticipating a capitulation by Mr. McConnell and said they believed he had overreached in the negotiation. Yellen's got the votes The good vaccine news keeps on coming Not news Senate Republicans wanted to hear Merck is shutting down its COVID vaccine program after lackluster results Merck said Monday that it is halting development of its two experimental Covid-19 vaccines, after early clinical-trial data showed the shots generated disappointing immune responses against the virus. Early-stage studies of the vaccines indicated they produced inferior immune responses in subjects given the shots compared with people who survived Covid-19 or took authorized Covid-19 vaccines, the company said. The exit removes a major vaccine player from the constellation of firms seeking shots to curb the spread of the virus, as the few companies that have been able to bring shots to market struggle to meet heavy demand.