To revisit this article, select My Account, then  . To revisit this article, visit My Profile, then  . WASHINGTON ( )--With fewer than fifty days until the Inauguration, the White House is facing the daunting task of distributing thousands of pardons to those who are desperately in need. In an effort to insure an orderly rollout of pardons, the Trump Administration announced that the first recipients would be essential front-line criminals. According to the announcement, essential front-line criminals include all White House staffers and Cabinet members who have spent the past four years receiving improper emoluments, destroying evidence, and subverting democracy. "These essential criminals have risked imprisonment day in, day out, for the good of President Trump," the White House press secretary, Kayleigh McEnany, said. "They need to be immunized, so that they can continue their important work." The announcement immediately raised concerns among front-line criminals, who fear that their swelling numbers, believed to be in the tens of thousands, could mean that there would not be enough pardons to go around. McEnany, however, sought to allay those fears. "President Trump has invoked the Defense Production Act to ramp up the manufacturing of Sharpies," she said. Will be used in accordance with our . The outgoing President, seated on a golf cart, hurled tennis ball after tennis ball at his Vice-President, who obediently retrieved them. "This is the behavior of someone who has failed at many jobs," a psychologist said. "On some level, he is terrified that he is not employable anywhere else." Despite coronavirus restrictions and questionable venues, New York City's comedians have found a way to keep performing. (c) 2021 Conde Nast. All rights reserved. Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our   (updated as of 1/1/21 ) and   (updated as of 1/1/21 ) and   may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Conde Nast.