President Trump told millions of Americans that the Democratic Party was trying to the United States with of violent illegal immigrants, in a plot to steal elections through mass voter fraud; that Democratic donor George Soros ; that mainstream news outlets like CNN for the sole purpose of damaging the president, and dividing the public, and were, therefore, the committed unforgivable crimes against our country and . Then, a man who (allegedly) tried to murder George Soros, Hillary Clinton, CNN employees, and much of the Democratic Party's elected leadership with explosives. Subsequent reporting on Cesar Sayoc's social-media use , before 2016, he primarily "posted photos of decadent meals, gym workouts, scantily clad women and sports games" -- but over the course of that election year, "his anodyne posts gave way to a feed overflowing with pro-Donald Trump images, news stories about Muslims and the Islamic State, far-fetched conspiracy theories and clips from Fox News broadcasts." The day Sayoc was arrested, Trump . Less than 24 hours later, a man who believed that (allegedly) murdered 11 people in a Pittsburgh synagogue. The shooter was apparently concerned about a caravan of Central American migrants that was headed to the U.S. -- migrants whom he considered to be "hostile invaders." Two days after that shooting, Trump referred to the migrant caravan as And -- even though the migrants are unlikely to reach the U.S. for months, if ever -- the president announced that he was sending , in an apparent attempt to use paranoid fear as a get-out-the-vote tool. All this has led some media outlets to suggest that the president's demagogic lies might be putting American lives in danger. The president, for his part, believes that such speculation is grotesque, absurd, and can only be explained In his first network television interview since those stories of domestic terrorism came to dominate headlines side by side, the president said that journalists did not seek to implicate former President Barack Obama in a racially motivated shooting at an African-American church in Charleston that left nine parishioners dead in June 2015. "Bernie Sanders had a fan who shot a very good friend of ours, Steve Scalise, and other people ... I was in the headline of the Washington , my name associated with this crazy bomber, 'Trump bomber' or something. But I was in the headline when they got him. They didn't say 'bomber found,' they talked about Trump in the headline," referring to coverage of the arrest of Cesar Sayoc in Florida. "Now, they didn't do that with Bernie Sanders when he had, they didn't do that with the Democrats when other people came out," Trump said. "They didn't do that with President Obama, with the church, the horrible situation with the church. They didn't do that. They put my name in the headlines." It's hard to quibble with reasoning this airtight. After all, it's not as though one can draw between Bernie Sanders citing CBO data about the likely consequences of the GOP health-care bill, and Donald Trump accusing his political opponents of orchestrating a fictional invasion of the United States. Further, it's indisputably true that the media never associated Sanders with the man who shot Steve Scalise -- let alone, . But the president's most persuasive point is that the media suggested that Barack Obama bore responsibility for a white supremacist's decision to murder nine African-Americans at Emmanuel A.M.E. Church in Charleston, South Carolina. How could one possibly believe, on the one hand, that Trump's rhetoric played a role in inspiring a Trump supporter to mail bombs to specific individuals whom he had baselessly accused of treason -- and, on the other, that the first black president bears for a white supremacist trying to murder random black people? There's just no way to justify taking divergent positions of these two developments. In fact, Trump's argument (that only liberal bias can explain why the media didn't blame Obama for Dylann Roof's crime) is so bulletproof, even moderate Republicans like Nikki Haley are making it. I have struggled w/ what happened in Pitts bc it's so similar to what happened in Chas. The country was very racially divided @ the time. We didn't once blame Pres. Obama. We focused solely on the lives lost & their families. Have some respect for these families & stop the blame. All this goes to show that America has two equally legitimate and honest political parties, and all objective news reporting should implicitly endorse that premise by giving equal space to each side's perspective. Not good news, particularly with the Democratic majority hanging by a thread Well, that would be nice A sign of where this trial is going You can stop fiddling with your router - it's not just you People across the East Coast were having trouble accessing core Internet services Tuesday morning, just as they were logging on for work and school. Users reported trouble loading Gmail, Slack and Zoom -- apps that have become necessities to keep work-from-home life running smoothly during the pandemic. Downdetector, which tracks reports of outages, showed widespread issues with Verizon, Google, Zoom, YouTube, Slack, Amazon Web Services and others Tuesday just before noon. On Twitter, which many still were able to access, people reported they were seeing issues with their Verizon Fios Internet service. Verizon's customer support team said on Twitter Tuesday that a fiber had been cut in Brooklyn, which could possibly account for some of the issues. The support account on Twitter quickly became inundated with customers asking why their internet was slow and bumpy. It was not immediately clear what was causing the outages, though many people pointed to issues with their Verizon Fios service. Amazon Web Services' status page showed its service, which provides computing power to large swaths of the Internet, was experiencing an issue with an external provider. On its status page, it said that it is "investigating connectivity issues with an internet provider, mainly affecting the East Coast of the United States, outside of the AWS Network." Slack said there were no issues with its own service. Now that McConnell has caved on the filibuster, we should see a Senate power-sharing agreement later this week Senator Mitch McConnell on Monday dropped his demand that the new Democratic Senate majority promise to preserve the filibuster -- which Republicans could use to obstruct President Biden's agenda -- ending an impasse that had prevented Democrats from assuming full power even after their election wins. In his negotiations with Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the new majority leader, Mr. McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, had refused to agree to a plan for organizing the chamber without a pledge from Democrats to protect the filibuster, a condition that Mr. Schumer had rejected. But late Monday, as the stalemate persisted, Mr. McConnell found a way out by pointing to statements by two centrist Democrats, Senators Joe Manchin III of West Virginia and Kyrsten Sinema of Arizona, that said they opposed getting rid of the procedural tool -- a position they had held for months -- as enough of a guarantee to move forward without a formal promise from Mr. Schumer. "With these assurances, I look forward to moving ahead with a power-sharing agreement modeled on that precedent," Mr. McConnell said in a statement. Democrats had been anticipating a capitulation by Mr. McConnell and said they believed he had overreached in the negotiation. Yellen's got the votes The good vaccine news keeps on coming Not news Senate Republicans wanted to hear Merck is shutting down its COVID vaccine program after lackluster results Merck said Monday that it is halting development of its two experimental Covid-19 vaccines, after early clinical-trial data showed the shots generated disappointing immune responses against the virus. Early-stage studies of the vaccines indicated they produced inferior immune responses in subjects given the shots compared with people who survived Covid-19 or took authorized Covid-19 vaccines, the company said. The exit removes a major vaccine player from the constellation of firms seeking shots to curb the spread of the virus, as the few companies that have been able to bring shots to market struggle to meet heavy demand.